

OGC® Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - Earth Observation Application Profile








	
	Open Geospatial Consortium

	Submission Date: 2016-08-31

	Approval Date: 2018-01-02

	Publication Date: 2018-10-04

	External identifier of this OGC® document: http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/WCS-EO-AP/1.1

	Internal reference number of this OGC® document: 10-140r2

	URL for this OGC® document: http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/10-140r2/10-140r2.html

	PDF version (informative): http://docs.opengeospatial.org/is/10-140r2/10-140r2.pdf

	Version: 1.1

	Category: OGC® Implementation Standard

	Editor: Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl, Jinsongdi Yu



	OGC® Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - Earth Observation Application Profile



	Copyright notice

	Copyright © 2014, 2016, 2018 Open Geospatial Consortium

	To obtain additional rights of use, visit http://www.opengeospatial.org/legal/



	Warning




This document is an OGC Member approved international standard.  This document is available on a royalty free, non-discriminatory basis. Recipients of this document are invited to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent rights of which they are aware and to provide supporting documentation.



	Document type: OGC® Standard

	Document subtype: Implementation

	Document stage: Approved

	Document language: English






License Agreement




Permission is hereby granted by the Open Geospatial Consortium, ("Licensor"), free of charge and subject to the terms set forth below, to any person obtaining a copy of this Intellectual Property and any associated documentation, to deal in the Intellectual Property without restriction (except as set forth below), including without limitation the rights to implement, use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sublicense copies of the Intellectual Property, and to permit persons to whom the Intellectual Property is furnished to do so, provided that all copyright notices on the intellectual property are retained intact and that each person to whom the Intellectual Property is furnished agrees to the terms of this Agreement.




If you modify the Intellectual Property, all copies of the modified Intellectual Property must include, in addition to the above copyright notice, a notice that the Intellectual Property includes modifications that have not been approved or adopted by LICENSOR.




THIS LICENSE IS A COPYRIGHT LICENSE ONLY, AND DOES NOT CONVEY ANY RIGHTS UNDER ANY PATENTS THAT MAY BE IN FORCE ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD.




THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE FUNCTIONS CONTAINED IN THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS OR THAT THE OPERATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE. ANY USE OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY SHALL BE MADE ENTIRELY AT THE USER’S OWN RISK. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR ANY CONTRIBUTOR OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS TO THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM ANY ALLEGED INFRINGEMENT OR ANY LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR UNDER ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION, USE, COMMERCIALIZATION OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.




This license is effective until terminated. You may terminate it at any time by destroying the Intellectual Property together with all copies in any form. The license will also terminate if you fail to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement. Except as provided in the following sentence, no such termination of this license shall require the termination of any third party end-user sublicense to the Intellectual Property which is in force as of the date of notice of such termination. In addition, should the Intellectual Property, or the operation of the Intellectual Property, infringe, or in LICENSOR’s sole opinion be likely to infringe, any patent, copyright, trademark or other right of a third party, you agree that LICENSOR, in its sole discretion, may terminate this license without any compensation or liability to you, your licensees or any other party. You agree upon termination of any kind to destroy or cause to be destroyed the Intellectual Property together with all copies in any form, whether held by you or by any third party.




Except as contained in this notice, the name of LICENSOR or of any other holder of a copyright in all or part of the Intellectual Property shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Intellectual Property without prior written authorization of LICENSOR or such copyright holder. LICENSOR is and shall at all times be the sole entity that may authorize you or any third party to use certification marks, trademarks or other special designations to indicate compliance with any LICENSOR standards or specifications. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The application to this Agreement of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is hereby expressly excluded. In the event any provision of this Agreement shall be deemed unenforceable, void or invalid, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid and enforceable, and as so modified the entire Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. No decision, action or inaction by LICENSOR shall be construed to be a waiver of any rights or remedies available to it.






Table of Contents

	1. Scope
	2. Conformance
	3. Normative references
	4. Terms and Definitions
	4.1. Coverage
	4.2. Dataset
	4.3. Dataset Series
	4.4. EO Coverage
	4.5. EO Metadata
	4.6. Stitched Mosaic
	4.7. EO Product
	4.8. EO Product Dataset
	4.9. EO Product Quicklook
	4.10. Lineage record
	4.11. refers to



	5. Conventions
	5.1. UML notation
	5.2. Data dictionary tables
	5.3. Namespace prefix conventions
	5.4. Multiple representations



	6. EO data model
	6.1. Overview
	6.2. EO Metadata
	6.3. EO Coverage
	6.3.1. Overview
	6.3.2. EO Metadata
	6.3.3. Spatio-temporal extent
	6.3.4. Range type
	6.3.5. Range set



	6.4. Dataset
	6.5. Stitched Mosaic
	6.5.1. Overview
	6.5.2. Spatio-temporal extent
	6.5.3. Range type
	6.5.4. Range set



	6.6. Dataset Series



	7. EO service model
	7.1. Overview
	7.2. GetCapabilities operation
	7.2.1. GetCapabilities request
	7.2.2. GetCapabilities response



	7.3. DescribeCoverage operation
	7.3.1. DescribeCoverage request
	7.3.2. DescribeCoverage response



	7.4. GetCoverage operation
	7.4.1. GetCoverage request
	7.4.2. GetCoverage response



	7.5. DescribeEOCoverageSet operation
	7.5.1. Overview
	7.5.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet request
	7.5.3. DescribeEOCoverageSet response
	7.5.4. DescribeEOCoverageSet exceptions



	7.6. GetEOCoverageSet operation
	7.6.1. Overview
	7.6.2. GetEOCoverageSet request
	7.6.3. GetEOCoverageSet response
	7.6.4. GetEOCoverageSet exceptions






	8. WCS extensions
	8.1. Overview
	8.2. Band subsetting
	8.3. Scaling
	8.4. Interpolation
	8.5. CRSs
	8.6. Coverage format encodings



	9. Protocol Bindings
	9.1. Protocol choices
	9.2. GET-KVP protocol conformance class
	9.2.1. WCS GET/KVP encoding
	9.2.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet GET/KVP encoding
	9.2.3. GetEOCoverageSet GET/KVP encoding



	9.3. SOAP protocol conformance class
	9.3.1. WCS SOAP encoding
	9.3.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet SOAP encoding
	9.3.3. DescribeEOCoverageSet WSDL
	9.3.4. GetEOCoverageSet SOAP encoding
	9.3.5. GetEOCoverageSet WSDL






	Annex A: Conformance Class Abstract Test Suite (Normative)
	A.1. Conformance Test Classes: eowcs & eowcs_geteocoverageset
	A.1.1. EO Metadata
	A.1.2. Footprint in EO Metadata
	A.1.3. EO Coverage
	A.1.4. EO Metadata in EO Coverage
	A.1.5. EOP Identifier in EO Metadata
	A.1.6. Footprint inside BoundedBy
	A.1.7. PhenomenonTime in EO Metadata
	A.1.8. PhenomenonTime ISO9891
	A.1.9. Range type extension
	A.1.10. Range type uom
	A.1.11. Range type name
	A.1.12. Rangeset of Coverage
	A.1.13. Dataset Structure
	A.1.14. Referenceable Stitched Mosaic-structure
	A.1.15. Rectified Stitched Mosaic-structure
	A.1.16. Composed-of in Stitched mosaic
	A.1.17. Contributing Footprint inside Footprint
	A.1.18. Contributing Footprint-pairwise-disjoint
	A.1.19. Contributing Footprint-union-of-footprints
	A.1.20. Dataset Domain Set in Set in Stitched Mosaic Domain Set
	A.1.21. Datasets in Rectified Stitched Mosaic Same Offset Vector
	A.1.22. Rectified Stitched Mosaic OffsetVector
	A.1.23. Referenceable Stitched Mosaic Domainset
	A.1.24. Temporal Validity Stitched Mosaic
	A.1.25. Datasets in Stitched Mosaic Same Rangetype
	A.1.26. Nil Values in Stitched Mosaic
	A.1.27. Range Values of Stitched Mosaic
	A.1.28. Dataset Series Structure
	A.1.29. Footprint in Dataset Series
	A.1.30. TimePeriod in DatasetSeries
	A.1.31. Metadata in DatasetSeries
	A.1.32. No circular references of Dataset Series
	A.1.33. GetCapabilities Request Sections
	A.1.34. GetCapabilities Response eowcs Conformance Class in Profile
	A.1.35. GetCapabilities Response eowcs_geteocoverageset Conformance Class in Profile
	A.1.36. GetCapabilities Response Structure
	A.1.37. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeriesSummary
	A.1.38. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeriesSummary no-duplicates
	A.1.39. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Summary
	A.1.40. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Summary Section
	A.1.41. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeries Summary Section
	A.1.42. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Subtype
	A.1.43. GetCapabilities Response countDefault
	A.1.44. GetCapabilities Response pagingSupported
	A.1.45. GetCapabilities Response wcseoMetadata
	A.1.46. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response defaultPackageFormat
	A.1.47. GetCapabilities Response packageFormatSupported
	A.1.48. Describe Coverage Response EO Metadata
	A.1.49. Describe Coverage Response Coverage Subtype
	A.1.50. GetCoverage Request no Slicing
	A.1.51. GetCoverage Response Coverage Type
	A.1.52. GetCoverage Response EO Metadata
	A.1.53. GetCoverage Response EO Metadata in Stitched Mosaic
	A.1.54. GetCoverage Response Footprint in EO Metadata
	A.1.55. GetCoverage Response Lineage in EO Metadata
	A.1.56. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Structure
	A.1.57. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Sections
	A.1.58. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request eoId
	A.1.59. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Containment
	A.1.60. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Dimension
	A.1.61. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request CRS
	A.1.62. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Structure
	A.1.63. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Metadata
	A.1.64. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Section CoverageDescriptions
	A.1.65. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Section DatasetSeriesDescriptions
	A.1.66. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response eoId
	A.1.67. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Referred
	A.1.68. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Containment
	A.1.69. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response PhenomenonTime
	A.1.70. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Trim Omitted
	A.1.71. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Bound Omitted
	A.1.72. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response CoverageSubtype
	A.1.73. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Count
	A.1.74. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response startIndex
	A.1.75. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response numberMatched attribute
	A.1.76. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response numberReturned attribute
	A.1.77. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response startIndex attribute
	A.1.78. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response next attribute
	A.1.79. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response previous attribute
	A.1.80. GetEOCoverageSet Request Structure
	A.1.81. GetEOCoverageSet Request eoId
	A.1.82. GetEOCoverageSet Request Containment
	A.1.83. GetEOCoverageSet Request Dimensions
	A.1.84. GetEOCoverageSet Request CRS
	A.1.85. GetEOCoverageSet Request packageFormat
	A.1.86. GetEOCoverageSet Request mediaType
	A.1.87. GetEOCoverageSet Request Format
	A.1.88. GetEOCoverageSet Request Scaling
	A.1.89. GetEOCoverageSet Request Interpolation
	A.1.90. GetEOCoverageSet Request CRSs
	A.1.91. GetEOCoverageSet Response packageFormat
	A.1.92. GetEOCoverageSet Response multipart
	A.1.93. GetEOCoverageSet Response mediaType
	A.1.94. GetEOCoverageSet Response cid
	A.1.95. GetEOCoverageSet Response Format
	A.1.96. GetEOCoverageSet Response GetCoverage Applicable
	A.1.97. GetEOCoverageSet Response eoId
	A.1.98. GetEOCoverageSet Response Referred
	A.1.99. GetEOCoverageSet Response Containment
	A.1.100. GetEOCoverageSet Response phenomenonTime
	A.1.101. GetEOCoverageSet Response Trim Omitted
	A.1.102. GetEOCoverageSet Response Bound Omitted
	A.1.103. GetEOCoverageSet Response Count
	A.1.104. GetEOCoverageSet Response startIndex
	A.1.105. GetEOCoverageSet Response numberMatched attribute
	A.1.106. GetEOCoverageSet Response numberReturned attribute
	A.1.107. GetEOCoverageSet Response startIndex attribute
	A.1.108. GetEOCoverageSet Response next attribute
	A.1.109. GetEOCoverageSet Response previous attribute
	A.1.110. GetEOCoverageSet Response applySubset
	A.1.111. GetEOCoverageSet Response Scaling
	A.1.112. GetEOCoverageSet Response Interpolation
	A.1.113. GetEOCoverageSet Response CRSs
	A.1.114. Band Subsetting
	A.1.115. Scaling
	A.1.116. Interpolation
	A.1.117. CRS
	A.1.118. Encodings
	A.1.119. Protocol-bindings



	A.2. Conformance Test Class: eowcs_get-kvp
	A.2.1. eowcs_get-kvp/Mandatory
	A.2.2. eowcs_get-kvp/Conformance Class in Profile
	A.2.3. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet request
	A.2.4. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet eoid
	A.2.5. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet containment
	A.2.6. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet count
	A.2.7. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet startIndex
	A.2.8. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet Subset
	A.2.9. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet request
	A.2.10. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet eoid
	A.2.11. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet containment
	A.2.12. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet count
	A.2.13. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet startIndex
	A.2.14. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet packageFormat
	A.2.15. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet mediaType
	A.2.16. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet format
	A.2.17. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet applySubset
	A.2.18. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet parameters
	A.2.19. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet Subset



	A.3. Conformance Test Class: eowcs_soap
	A.3.1. eowcs_soap/Mandatory
	A.3.2. eowcs_soap/Conformance Class in Profile
	A.3.3. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet Request Structure
	A.3.4. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet Response Structure
	A.3.5. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-wsdl
	A.3.6. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet Request Structure
	A.3.7. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet Response Structure
	A.3.8. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-wsdl






	Annex B: Use Case Examples (Informative)
	B.1. Use Case 1
	B.2. Use Case 2



	Annex C: Revision History
	Annex D: Bibliography







i.     Abstract




The OGC Web Coverage Service (WCS) Application Profile - Earth Observation
(EO- WCS) defines a profile of WCS 2.0 [OGC 09-110r4] for use on Earth
Observation data.




ii.    Keywords




The following are keywords to be used by search engines and document
catalogues.




ogcdoc, OGC document, wcs, profile, eo, earth observation, dataset, dataset
series, stitched mosaic




iii.   Preface




This WCS Application Profile for Earth Observation is an OGC Implementation
Standard which relies on WCS 2.0 (the Core [OGC 09-110r4] plus selected
extensions), the Coverages Implementation Schema (renamed from GML Application
Schema - Coverages) [OGC 09-146r2], the Earth Observation Metadata Profile of
Observations and Measurements [OGC 10-157r4], and GML 3.2.1 [OGC 07-036].




This document includes four annexes; only the first annex is normative.




The OGC® Abstract Specification does not require any changes to accommodate
the technical contents of this (part of this) document.




Among the topics for future development are the following items:




	
Specify usage and content of EOWCS::Lineage in more detail.







Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this
document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial Consortium
shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.




Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their comments,
notification of any relevant patent claims or other intellectual property
rights of which they may be aware that might be infringed by any
implementation of the standard set forth in this document, and to provide
supporting documentation.




iv.    Submitting organizations




The following organizations submitted this Document to the Open Geospatial
Consortium (OGC):




Organization name(s)




	
Jacobs University Bremen


	
EOX IT Services GmbH


	
G.I.M. Geographic Information Management nv/sa


	
European Space Agency (ESA)


	
Spot Image







Additionally, rasdaman GmbH has made substantial contributions.




v.     Submitters




All questions regarding this submission should be directed to the editor or
the submitters:



	Name	Affiliation
	Peter Baumann
	Jacobs University Bremen, rasdaman GmbH

	Jinsongdi Yu
	Fuzhou University

	Stephan Meissl <stephan.meissl@eox.at>
	EOX IT Services GmbH

	Christian Schiller
	EOX IT Services GmbH








1. Scope



This OGC WCS Application Profile - Earth Observation Interface Standard -
henceforth abbreviated as: WCS Earth Observation Application Profile (EO-
WCS) - defines data structures and operations which together allow retrieval
of Earth Observation coverages offered by a WCS 2.0 server.




EO- WCS, defines a profile of WCS 2.0 [OGC 09-110r4] for use on Earth
Observation data. An Application Profile bundles several specifications and
possibly adds additional requirements on an implementation. Extra requirements
can be additions (for example, Dataset Series are introduced by this
specification) or constraints (for example, coverages offered are required to
include EO metadata).




EO-WCS provides the following specification elements.




	
Definition of specific Earth Observation coverages (EO Coverages) which have
a latitude/longitude or projected x/y spatial extent and a temporal validity
extent. EO Coverages are derived from Referenceable Grid Coverages and
Rectified Grid Coverages as defined in the Coverage Implementation Schema
(renamed from GML Application Schema - Coverages) [OGC 09-146r2]. Each EO
Coverage has an EO metadata set [OGC 10-157r4] contained in its metadata which
describes the coverage on hand on a higher semantic level.


	
Definition of a hierarchy which allows to group EO Coverages suitably for an
efficient retrieval:


	
Datasets as plain EO Coverages (and, hence, accessible as coverages);


	
Stitched Mosaics as homogeneous collections of spatially non-overlapping
subsets of Datasets, accessible themselves as coverages; and


	
Dataset Series as collections of Stitched Mosaics, Datasets, and/or Dataset
Series; Dataset Series themselves are not coverages.







	
Bundling of several mandatory and optional WCS extensions for EO-WCS
implementations.











2. Conformance



This document establishes the following requirements and conformance classes:




	
eowcs, of URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/req/eowcs,
defining EO-WCS on conceptual level in Clauses 6,
7, and 8; the corresponding conformance
class is eowcs, with URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs.


	
eowcs_geteocoverageset, of URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset,
defining the GetEOCoverageSet request of EO-WCS in Clause 7
where stated, particularly subclause 7.6; the
corresponding conformance class is eowcs_geteocoverageset, with URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset.


	
eowcs_get-kvp, of URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/req/eowcs_get-kvp,
defining the GET-KVP protocol binding of EO-WCS in Subclause 9.2; the
corresponding conformance class is eowcs_get-kvp, with URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_get-kvp.


	
eowcs_soap, of URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/req/eowcs_soap,
defining the SOAP protocol binding of EO-WCS on conceptual level in Subclause
9.3; the corresponding conformance class is eowcs_soap, with URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_soap.







The standardization target of all requirements and conformance classes are EO-WCS
implementations (currently servers).




Requirements and conformance test URIs defined in this document are relative to
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/.




Conformance Class Abstract Test Suite (Normative) lists the conformance
tests which shall be exercised on any software artifact claiming to implement
EO-WCS.








3. Normative references



This OGC WCS Application Profile - Earth Observation specification consists of
the present document and an
XML Schema. The complete
specification is identified by OGC URI
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1,
the document has OGC URI
http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1.




The complete specification is available for download from
http://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/wcs; additionally, the XML Schema is
posted online at http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1 as part of the OGC
schema repository. In the event of a discrepancy between bundled and schema
repository versions of the XML Schema files, the schema repository shall be
considered authoritative.




The following normative documents contain provisions that, through reference in
this text, constitute provisions of this specification. For dated references,
subsequent amendments to, or revisions of, any of these publications do not
apply. For undated references, the latest edition of the normative document
referred to applies.




OGC: OGC 06-121r9, OGC Web Services Common Standard, version 2.0, 2010




OGC: OGC 09-146r2, OGC® Coverage Implementation Schema (renamed from OGC®
GML Application Schema - Coverages), version 1.0, 2012

Conformance classes used: gml-coverage, gml, multipart, special-format




OGC: OGC 09-110r4, OGC® WCS 2.0 Interface Standard- Core: Corrigendum, version
2.0, 2012

Conformance classes used: core




OGC: OGC 11-053r1, OGC® Web Coverage Service Interface Standard - CRS Extension,
version 1.0, 2014

Conformance classes used: crs, crs-gridded-coverage




OGC: OGC 12-039, OGC® Web Coverage Service Interface Standard - Scaling Extension,
version 1.0, 2014

Conformance classes used: scaling




OGC: OGC 12-040, OGC® Web Coverage Service Interface Standard - Range Subsetting
Extension, version 1.0, 2013

Conformance classes used: record-subsetting




OGC: OGC 12-049, OGC® Web Coverage Service Interface Standard - Interpolation
Extension, version 1.0, 2014

Conformance classes used: interpolation




OGC: OGC 09-147r3, OGC® Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - KVP Protocol
Binding Extension - Corrigendum, version 1.0, 2013

Conformance classes used: get-kvp




OGC: OGC 09-149r1, OGC® Web Coverage Service 2.0 Interface Standard - XML/SOAP
Protocol Binding Extension, version 1.0, 2010

Conformance classes used: soap




OGC: OGC 12-100r1, OGC® GML Application Schema - Coverages - GeoTIFF Coverage
Encoding Profile, version 1.0, 2014

Conformance classes used: geotiff-coverage




OGC: OGC 14-100r2, OGC® CF-netCDF 3.0 encoding using GML Coverage Application
Schema, version 2.0, 2015

Conformance classes used: CF-netCDF-1.6 GML encoding, CF-netCDF-1.6 data
format, CF-netCDF-1.6 multipart data encoding




OGC: OGC 12-108, OGC® GML Application Schema - Coverages JPEG2000 Coverage Encoding
Extension, version 1.0, 2015

Conformance classes used: jpeg2000-coverage




OGC: OGC 10-157r4, OGC® Earth Observation Metadata profile of Observations &
Measurements, version 1.1, 2016

Conformance classes used: eop, sar, opt








4. Terms and Definitions



This document uses the standard terms defined in Subclause 5.3 of [OGC
06-121r9], which is based on the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2, Rules for the
structure and drafting of International Standards. In particular, the word
"shall" (not "must") is the verb form used to indicate a requirement to be
strictly followed to conform to this standard.




For the purposes of this document, the following additional terms and
definitions apply. An arrow "→" indicates that the following term is defined
in this Clause.




4.1. Coverage


digital representation of a spatio-temporally varying phenomenon as defined
in [OGC 09-146r2]






4.2. Dataset


→ EO Coverage




	
Note

	
A Dataset usually represents observations obtained by satellite
instruments.








4.3. Dataset Series


collection of → EO Coverages






4.4. EO Coverage


Rectified Grid → Coverage or Referenceable Grid → Coverage having an
→ EO Metadata record and a WGS84 footprint






4.5. EO Metadata


→ EO Coverage’s metadata record






4.6. Stitched Mosaic


→ EO Coverage composed from subsets of one or more co-referenced →
Datasets






4.7. EO Product


An EO Product contains one or more related → EO Product Datasets plus metadata
and optionally auxiliary data like → EO Product Quicklooks.






4.8. EO Product Dataset


One or more files each containing one or more → EO Coverages.






4.9. EO Product Quicklook


A visual representation of a usually reduced → EO Product Dataset encoded
in an image format. The → EO Product Dataset may combine different bands.






4.10. Lineage record


Data structure documenting an operation that has been applied to the →
Coverage of which it is part






4.11. refers to


contains, in its → EO Metadata element as defined in [OGC 10-157r4], the
→ EO Metadata element










5. Conventions



5.1. UML notation


Unified Modeling Language (UML) static structure diagrams appearing in this
specification are used as described in Subclause 5.2 of OGC Web Services
Common [OGC 06-121r9].






5.2. Data dictionary tables


The UML model data dictionary is specified herein in a series of tables. The
contents of the columns in these tables are described in Subclause 5.5 of [OGC
06-121r9]. The contents of these data dictionary tables are normative,
including any table footnotes.






5.3. Namespace prefix conventions


The following namespaces are used in this document. The prefix abbreviations
used constitute conventions used here, but are not normative. The namespaces
to which the prefixes refer are normative, however.



Table 1. Namespace mappings	Prefix	Namespace URI	Description
	xsd
	http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema
	XML Schema namespace

	ows
	http://www.opengis.net/ows/2.0
	OWS Common 2.0

	gml
	http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2
	GML 3.2.1

	gmlcov
	http://www.opengis.net/gmlcov/1.0
	Coverages Implementation Schema
1.0

	wcs
	http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0
	WCS 2.0

	eop
	http://www.opengis.net/eop/2.1
	Earth Observation Metadata
Profile of Observations and Measurements

	opt
	http://www.opengis.net/opt/2.1
	Optical Earth Observation
Metadata Profile of Observations and Measurements (extension of eop)

	sar
	http://www.opengis.net/sar/2.1
	SAR Earth Observation Metadata
Profile of Observations and Measurements (extension of eop)

	wcseo
	http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1
	WCS Application Profile - Earth
Observation 1.1

	scal
	http://www.opengis.net/wcs/scaling/1.0 (schema uses
http://www.opengis.net/WCS_service-extension_scaling/1.0)
	WCS Scaling Extension

	int
	http://www.opengis.net/wcs/interpolation/1.0 (schema uses
http://www.opengis.net/WCS_service-extension_interpolation/1.0
	WCS Interpolation
Extension

	crs
	http://www.opengis.net/wcs/crs/1.0
	WCS CRS Extension

	gmd
	http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd
	ISO 19139 Metadata

	gmi
	http://standards.iso.org/iso/19115/-2/gmi/1.0 or
http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmi
	ISO 19139-2 Metadata

	mdb
	http://standards.iso.org/iso/19115/-3/mdb/1.0
	ISO 19115-3 Metadata






5.4. Multiple representations


When multiple representations of the same information are given in a
specification document these are consistent. Should this not be the case then
this is considered an error, and the
XML Schema shall take precedence.










6. EO data model



6.1. Overview


This Clause 6, together with Clauses 7 and
8, establishes the EO-WCS core requirements class, eowcs as
well as the eowcs_geteocoverageset one where stated, particularly subclause
7.6.




The data model of this EO-WCS centers around the data structure of an Earth
Observation coverage (EO Coverage), which is a coverage extended with EO
Metadata [OGC 10-157r4] and bound to a location on the Earth. EO Coverages are a
subtype of either GMLCOV::RectifiedGridCoverage or
GMLCOV::ReferenceableGridCoverage.




Based on this EO Coverage concept (cf. Subclause 6.3), three main data elements
are defined, as follows.




	
A Dataset is an EO Coverage, which can represent, for example, a
hyperspectral 2D satellite scene or a 3D atmospheric model; cf. Subclause  6.4.
A Dataset can be a Rectified Dataset or a Referenceable Dataset, depending on
the type of EO Coverage it is derived from.


	
A Stitched Mosaic is a collection of EO Coverages referring
to co-referenced Datasets; cf. Subclause 6.5. A Stitched Mosaic can be a
Rectified Stitched Mosaic or a Referenceable Stitched Mosaic, depending on the
type of EO Coverage it is derived from. A Stitched Mosaic can be interpreted
(i.e. requested) as a single coverage.


	
A Dataset Series is a collection of coverages and/or Dataset Series; cf.
Subclause 6.6. A Dataset Series can refer to any number of Datasets, Stitched
Mosaics, and Dataset Series. A Dataset Series is not a coverage itself.







	
Note

	
Use Case Examples (Informative) provides Use Cases to motivate the
definition of these data elements.






	
Note

	
Although named Dataset Series technically speaking it is a heterogeneous
grouping of coverages and/or Dataset Series and can thus be used for any other
concept like an EO Product containing multiple coverages with different
resolutions as well.






Figure 1 informally symbolizes how the concepts of Dataset,
Stitched Mosaic, and Dataset Series relate to each other spatio-temporally, as follows.




	
A - a Dataset with a particular validity in time.


	
B - a Stitched Mosaic; all its Datasets have a spatial extent contained in the
Stitched Mosaic’s spatial extent and a timespan contained in the Stitched
Mosaic’s time interval. The subsets contributing to the Stitched Mosaic do not
overlap in space, but there may be empty (nil) areas.


	
C - the overall Dataset Series combining Datasets and Stitched Mosaics.











Figure 1. Conceptual view of a Dataset Series with Stitched Mosaic and Dataset




Figure 2 contains the UML diagram defining classes (types) and their
correlations in the EO-WCS.






6.2. EO Metadata


Every EO Coverage contains EO Metadata, consisting of an EarthObservation
record as defined in the OGC Earth Observation Metadata Profile of Observations
and Measurements [OGC 10-157r4] and a lineage describing the history of
operations leading to the coverage on hand.



	Requirement 1 
	/req/eowcs/eo-metadata-structure



A EOWCS::EOMetadata instance shall conform to Table 2,
Figure 2, Figure 3, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 



Table 2. Components of EOWCS::EOMetadata structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	earthObservation
	EO metadata record for this coverage object
	EOP::EarthObservation
	one (mandatory)

	lineage
	History record describing an operation that has been applied
to this object
	EOWCS::Lineage
	zero or more (optional)








Figure 2. UML Model of WCS EO Application Profile Schema




	
Note

	
Throughout this standard, eop: and EOP:: can be substituted by opt:
and OPT:: or sar: and SAR::, respectively, as in [OGC 10-157r4] opt and
sar are in the substitution group of eop.










Figure 3. UML Lineage class diagram




	
Note

	
The lineage records are supposed to describe the history of processing
steps that has led to the coverage on hand. As at the time of this writing there
is no canonical format for such histories available in OGC, for the purpose of
this specification no assumption is made about the contents of a lineage record,
except that GetCoverage appends its request verbatim as an additional record
(see Requirement 55 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-lineage-in-eo-metadata).






The footprint of an EO Coverage, which contains one or more bounding polygons to
describe the region of valid data more accurately than the EO Coverage’s
bounding box, is mandatory as opposed to [OGC 10-157r4].



	Requirement 2 
	/req/eowcs/footprint-in-eo-metadata



The EOWCS::EOMetadata element of EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and
EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances shall contain an
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint element.




	
Note

	
As per [OGC 10-157r4], the footprint is always given in WGS84.








6.3. EO Coverage


6.3.1. Overview


An EO Coverage is a coverage as defined in the Coverages Implementation
Schema (renamed from GML Application Schema - Coverages) [OGC 09-146r2]. EO
Coverages appear in two variants:




	
Rectified EO Coverages are derived from Rectified Grid Coverage as defined
in [OGC 09-146r2]; and


	
Referenceable EO Coverages are derived from Referenceable Grid Coverage as
defined in [OGC 09-146r2].






	Requirement 3 
	/req/eowcs/eo-coverage-structure



EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances
shall conform to Figure 2, Figure 3, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 




	
Note

	
An EO Coverage can have any number of dimensions as long as it adheres
to the requirements below. Particularly it needs a footprint bound to the Earth
and a temporal validity.








6.3.2. EO Metadata


An EO Coverage has an EO Metadata record associated.



	Requirement 4 
	/req/eowcs/eo-metadata-in-eo-coverage



EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances
shall contain one metadata element of type EOWCS::EOMetadata.




	
Note

	
Besides this specific metadata element there may be further metadata
elements.






	
Note

	
According to the rules of GML, a xlink:href URI to an accessible element
of type EOWCS::EOMetadata can be provided instead of the element itself in any
place of the XML Schema where such a metadata record appears.






The EO Metadata record associated with an EO Coverage contains a back reference
to the coverage.



	Requirement 5 
	/req/eowcs/eop-identifier-in-eo-metadata



The EOWCS::EOMetadata element of EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and
EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances shall contain an element
eop:EarthObservation/eop:metadataProperty/eop:EarthObservationMetaData/eop:identifier
whose first word (NCNAME type substring i.e. starting from it’s first character
up to and excluding the first character which is not allowed in an NCName) is
identical to the EO Coverage identifier. 




	
Note

	
Normally, this word (i.e. NCName) acting as coverage identifier will be
the only contents of the eop:identifier string and thus both elements will be
equal.








6.3.3. Spatio-temporal extent


The EO Coverage’s extent of valid data is given by its EO Metadata footprint,
which refines the coverage’s envelope.



	Requirement 6 
	/req/eowcs/footprint-inside-boundedBy



In EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances,
all polygons listed in eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint
element shall be geometrically contained in the bounding box of the
gml:boundedBy element of the gml:Envelope. 




	
Note

	
By definition, the footprint is expressed in WGS84.






An EO Coverage has a time period of validity associated.



	Requirement 7 
	/req/eowcs/phenomenonTime-in-eo-metadata



The EOWCS::EOMetadata element of a EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage or
EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instance shall contain elements
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition where
beginPosition ≤ endPosition. 




	
Note

	
This typically is the time period where image acquisition has taken place.





	Requirement 8 
	/req/eowcs/phenomenonTime-iso8601



For any given EO Coverage, its temporal validity values shall be expressed in
ISO 8601 [2]. 






6.3.4. Range type


The range type of an EO Coverage is extended to include further useful
information for example to know how to convert stored numbers to physical
properties.



	Requirement 9 
	/req/eowcs/rangeTypeExtension



If additional range type information is made available then the
gmlcov:rangeType element of EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and
EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances shall contain
wcseo:rangeTypeExtension elements either under the
swe:DataRecord/swe:extension or each
swe:DataRecord/swe:field/swe:Quantity/swe:extension element or both.



	Requirement 10 
	/req/eowcs/rangeType-uom



In EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances,
the code attribute of the swe:uom element of each swe:Quantity element in
the gmlcov:rangeType element shall hold the unit of the measured physical
property. 




	
Note

	
The data type is provided explicitly in the wcseo:rangeTypeExtension
element or implicitly via the actual coverage encoding.





	Requirement 11 
	/req/eowcs/rangeType-name



In EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances,
the swe:identifier element of each swe:Quantity element under each
swe:field element shall hold the URL-encoded identifier of the respective
field (also referred to as band or channel) and the name attribute of each
swe:field element shall hold the first word (NCNAME type substring i.e.
starting from it’s first character up to and excluding the first character
which is not allowed in an NCName) of the identifier of the respective field.




	
Note

	
Typically the two values are identical. This requirement addresses cases
where the identifier includes characters not allowed in NCName like :, @,
$, %, &, /, +, ,, ;, or any whitespace characters or where it
starts with a number, minus, or dot. For example an ID of gray band should
use gray for the name attribute and gray%20band for the swe:identifier
element.






Example: The following provides an example gmlcov:rangeType element including
additional range type information for RGB generation on swe:DataRecord level
as well as data conversion information on swe:Quantity level.





<gmlcov:rangeType>
  <swe:DataRecord definition="http://www.opengis.net/def/property/OGC-EO/0/opt/SpectralMode/PANCHROMATIC">
    <swe:extension>
      <wcseo:rangeTypeExtension>
        <wcseo:RGBgenerationHint>
          <wcseo:bandSequence>gray gray gray</wcseo:bandSequence>
          <wcseo:intervalFrom>1 4095</wcseo:intervalFrom>
          <wcseo:intervalTo>1 255</wcseo:intervalTo>
          <wcseo:type>http://sweet.jpl.nasa.gov/2.3/reprMathFunction.owl#Logarithmic</wcseo:type>
        </wcseo:RGBgenerationHint>
      </wcseo:rangeTypeExtension>
    </swe:extension>
    <swe:label>Gray Channel/Band</swe:label>
    <swe:field name="gray">
      <swe:Quantity definition="http://sweet.jpl.nasa.gov/2.3/propEnergyFlux.owl#SpectralRadiance">
        <swe:extension>
          <wcseo:rangeTypeExtension>
            <wcseo:dataSemantics>http://sweet.jpl.nasa.gov/2.3/stateSpectralBand.owl#Visible</wcseo:dataSemantics>
            <wcseo:dataType>http://www.opengis.net/def/dataType/OGC/0/unsignedShort</wcseo:dataType>
            <wcseo:dataType2dataSemantics>
              <wcseo:intervalFrom>1 4095</wcseo:intervalFrom>
              <wcseo:intervalTo>390.0000 780.0000</wcseo:intervalTo>
              <wcseo:type>http://sweet.jpl.nasa.gov/2.3/reprMathFunction.owl#Linear</wcseo:type>
            </wcseo:dataType2dataSemantics>
          </wcseo:rangeTypeExtension>
        </swe:extension>
        <swe:identifier>gray%20band</swe:identifier>
        <swe:label>Gray Channel/Band</swe:label>
        <swe:description>Gray Channel/Band</swe:description>
        <swe:nilValues>
          <swe:NilValues>
            <swe:nilValue reason="http://www.opengis.net/def/nil/OGC/0/unknown">0</swe:nilValue>
          </swe:NilValues>
        </swe:nilValues>
        <swe:uom code="W.m-2.sr-1.nm-1"/>
        <swe:constraint>
          <swe:AllowedValues>
            <swe:interval>0 4095</swe:interval>
            <swe:significantFigures>4</swe:significantFigures>
          </swe:AllowedValues>
        </swe:constraint>
      </swe:Quantity>
    </swe:field>
  </swe:DataRecord>
</gmlcov:rangeType>








6.3.5. Range set


Cells outside the footprint hold only nil values.



	Requirement 12 
	/req/eowcs/range-set-of-eo-coverage



In EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage and EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage instances,
all cells whose locations are outside the EO Metadata footprint when both are
evaluated in WGS84, shall contain nil values as defined in the bounding EO
Coverage’s range type. 








6.4. Dataset


A Dataset is an EO Coverage as symbolized in Figure 4. A Dataset
is either a Referenceable Dataset or a Rectified Dataset, derived from
EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage or EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage, respectively.




	
Note

	
Typically, a Dataset represents a (single- or multi-band) satellite/aerial
image scene.





	Requirement 13 
	/req/eowcs/dataset-structure



A EOWCS::ReferenceableDataset and a EOWCS::RectifiedDataset shall conform
to Figure 2, Figure 3, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 








Figure 4. Conceptual view of a Dataset: in referenced (left) and unreferenced coordinates (right)




	
Note

	
This definition includes the "field-of-View" of a sensor, or "cut",
according to sensor specific data specification at the resolution of the sensor
(also referred to as Level-0 or Level-1 data).








6.5. Stitched Mosaic


6.5.1. Overview


A Stitched Mosaic is an identifiable, queryable, referenced EO Coverage as
symbolized in Figure 5. A Stitched Mosaic is either a
Referenceable Stitched Mosaic or a Rectified Stitched Mosaic, derived from
EOWCS::ReferenceableEOCoverage or EOWCS::RectifiedEOCoverage, respectively.




Stitched Mosaics refer to one or more Datasets. All cells within a Stitched
Mosaic which are not located inside any contributingFootprint of any of the
contained Datasets carry nil values.








Figure 5. Conceptual view of a Stitched Mosaic: composed from Datasets (Stitched Mosaic bounding box dashed)



	Requirement 14 
	/req/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-structure



EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic instances shall conform to Figure 2,
Figure 3, Table 3,
Table 5, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 



Table 3. Components of EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	dataset
	Reference to a Referenceable Dataset referred to by the Stitched
Mosaic on hand
	EOWCS::DatasetReference
	one or more (mandatory)



	Requirement 15 
	/req/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-structure



EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic instances shall conform to Figure 2,
Figure 3, Table 4,
Table 5, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 



Table 4. Components of EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	dataset
	Reference to a Rectified Dataset referred to by the Stitched Mosaic on
hand
	EOWCS::DatasetReference
	one or more (mandatory)



Table 5. Components of EOWCS::DatasetReference structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	datasetId
	Dataset referred to by the Stitched Mosaic on hand
	WCS::CoverageId
	one (mandatory)

	contributingFootprint
	Horizontal bounding polygon enclosing data areas of the
Dataset contributing to the Stitched Mosaic on hand
	EOP::Footprint
	zero or
one (optional)




The Dataset references of an EO Coverage shall be consistent with the coverage’s
EO Metadata references.



	Requirement 16 
	/req/eowcs/composedOf-in-stitched-mosaic



In EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic and EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic
instances with at least one eop:EarthObservation/eop:metaDataProperty/eop:Earth
ObservationMetaData/eop:composedOf, the set of these elements shall be equal
to the set of dataset identifiers of the Stitched Mosaic.






6.5.2. Spatio-temporal extent


A Stitched Mosaic is defined through a collection of spatially non-overlapping
subsets of Datasets it refers to.



	Requirement 17 
	/req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-inside-footprint



For all Stitched Mosaics sm referring to some Datasets d with an associated
contributingFootprint, this contributingFootprint shall be geographically
contained in the footprint of d. 



	Requirement 18 
	/req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-pairwise-disjoint



For all Stitched Mosaics sm referring to Datasets d1 and d2, with an
associated contributingFootprint, the contributingFootprints of the d1
and d2 references shall be pair-wise disjoint. 



	Requirement 19 
	/req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-union-of-footprints



The footprint of a Stitched Mosaic shall be given by the union of the
contributingFootprints of the Datasets this Stitched Mosaic refers to.



	Requirement 20 
	/req/eowcs/dataset-domain-set-in-stitched-mosaic-domain-set



For all Datasets d referred to by some Stitched Mosaics sm, all cells of d
as defined by the domain set of d shall be contained in the set of cells of
sm as defined by the domain set of sm. 




Datasets referred to by a Stitched Mosaic shall have aligned cell locations:




	
In case of Rectified EO Coverages, the grids of Datasets of a Stitched Mosaics shall
have the same resolution.

	Requirement 21 
	/req/eowcs/datasets-in-rectifiedStitcheMosaic-same-offsetVector



All Datasets referred to by a Rectified Stitched Mosaic shall have identical
values in the gml:offsetVector elements of their domain sets.



	Requirement 22 
	/req/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-offsetVector



In a Rectified Stitched Mosaic instance, the value of the gml:offsetVector
elements of the domain set shall be given by the corresponding values of the
Rectified Datasets the Rectified Stitched Mosaic refers to.




	
In case of Referenceable EO Coverages, Datasets of Stitched Mosaics shall have
aligned cell locations in overlapping areas.

	Requirement 23 
	/req/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-domain-set



For any pair d1 and d2 of Datasets referred to by a given Stitched
Mosaic, the set of point locations in the geographic overlap of the d1 and
d2 domain set shall be identical. 









The temporal validity of Stitched Mosaics is defined by the temporal validities
of the Datasets to which the Stitched Mosaic refers.



	Requirement 24 
	/req/eowcs/temporal-validity-stitched-mosaic



For any given Stitched Mosaic, its temporal validity given by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition elements
in wcseo:EOMetadata shall be defined as the minimal time interval containing
the temporal validities of all Datasets the Stitched Mosaic refers to.






6.5.3. Range type


Stitched Mosaics and their Datasets share the same range type.



	Requirement 25 
	/req/eowcs/datasets-in-stitched-mosaic-same-range-type



For all Datasets d some Stitched Mosaic sm refers to the following shall
hold: The range type of d is identical to the range type of sm.






6.5.4. Range set


The content of a Stitched Mosaic is given by the Datasets to which it refers; cells of
a Stitched Mosaic with domain coordinates outside of any embedded Dataset’s
contributingFootprint carry nil values (cf. Figure 6).



	Requirement 26 
	/req/eowcs/nil-values-in-stitched-mosaic



If the domain set of a Stitched Mosaic contains locations which are not inside
any contributingFootprint of any Dataset the Stitched Mosaic refers to then
the nil value set of that Stitched Mosaic shall not be empty.



	Requirement 27 
	/req/eowcs/range-values-of-stitched-mosaic



For a Stitched Mosaic sm its range values of cells with location p,
expressed in any of the CRSs supported by sm, shall be given as follows:

- if p is located within the contributingFootprint of some Dataset d
referred to by sm then it is the range value of d at p;

- if p is not located within the contributingFootprint of any Dataset d
referred to by sm then it is one of the range values contained in the nil
value set of sm. 








6.6. Dataset Series


A Dataset Series is an identifiable, queryable collection of EO Coverages and
Dataset Series.




	
Note

	
Although named Dataset Series technically speaking it is a heterogeneous
grouping of coverages and/or Dataset Series and can thus be used for any other
concept like an EO Product containing multiple coverages with different
resolutions as well.






	
Note

	
A Dataset referred to by a Stitched Mosaic referred to by a Dataset Series
is not per se referred to by that Dataset Series. However, it is allowed that
such a Dataset is also referred to by the enclosing Dataset Series.










Figure 6. Conceptual view of a Dataset Series referring to Datasets and Stitched Mosaics (Dataset Series domain boundary dashed)



	Requirement 28 
	/req/eowcs/datasetSeries-structure



A EOWCS::DatasetSeries shall conform to Figure 2, Figure 3,
Table 6, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 



Table 6. Components of EOWCS::DatasetSeries structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	datasetSeriesId
	Identifier of the Dataset Series on hand
	NCName
	one
(mandatory)

	footprint
	Horizontal bounding polygon enclosing valid data areas of the
Dataset Series
	EOP::Footprint
	one (mandatory)

	timePeriod
	Temporal period of validity of all data in the Dataset Series
	GML::TimePeriod
	one (mandatory)

	metadata
	EO Metadata of the Dataset Series on hand
	ows:Metadata
	zero or
more (optional)

	referenceableStitchedMosaic
	Referenceable Stitched Mosaic to which the Dataset
Series on hand refers
	WCS::CoverageId
	zero or more (optional)

	rectifiedStitchedMosaic
	Rectified Stitched Mosaic to which the Dataset Series
on hand refers
	WCS::CoverageId
	zero or more (optional)

	referenceableDataset
	Referenceable Dataset to which the Dataset Series on hand
refers
	WCS::CoverageId
	zero or more (optional)

	rectifiedDataset
	Rectified Dataset to which the Dataset Series on hand refers
	WCS::CoverageId
	zero or more (optional)

	datasetSeries
	Dataset Series to which the Dataset Series on hand refers
	EOWCS::datasetSeriesId
	zero or more (optional)




	
Note

	
A Dataset Series and a Stitched Mosaic contained therein may both refer to
the same Dataset.






The spatial extent of a Dataset Series shall enclose the spatial extents of all
Stitched Mosaics, Datasets, and Dataset Series the Dataset Series refers to.



	Requirement 29 
	/req/eowcs/footprint-in-datasetSeries



The footprint of a Dataset Series instance shall enclose the union of the
footprints of all Stitched Mosaics, Datasets, and Dataset Series the Dataset
Series refers to, expressed in WGS84. 




	
Note

	
As opposed to Stitched Mosaics, Dataset Series do not require disjointness
of the EO Coverages to which they refer.






The temporal validity of a Dataset Series is defined by the union of the
temporal validities of all Stitched Mosaics, Datasets, and Dataset Series to which the
Dataset Series refers.



	Requirement 30 
	/req/eowcs/timePeriod-in-datasetSeries



For any given Dataset Series, the timePeriod element shall enclose the
temporal validities of all Stitched Mosaics, Datasets, and Dataset Series the
Dataset Series refers to, expressed in ISO 8601 [2].




A Dataset Series has an EO Metadata record associated.



	Requirement 31 
	/req/eowcs/metadata-in-datasetSeries



A Dataset Series instance shall contain one metadata element of type
EOWCS::EOMetadata. 




	
Note

	
A Dataset Series may contain multiple metadata elements holding the
metadata in different formats. Explicitly supported metadata elements are
eop:EarthObservation, gmd:MD_Metadata, gmi:MI_Metadata, mdb:MD_Metadata,
or ows:Reference or any element in the substitutionGroup of any of these.






A Dataset Series shall not refer to any Dataset Series that refers to it either
directly or via other Dataset Series i.e. there shall be no circular references.



	Requirement 32 
	/req/eowcs/nocircularreference-of-datasetSeries



A Dataset Series shall only refer to Dataset Series that do not refer to the
Dataset Series at hand either directly or via other Dataset Series.




Example: The following XML fragment shows a DatasetSeries instance.





<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<wcseo:DatasetSeries xmlns:ows="http://www.opengis.net/ows/2.0" xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2" xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0" xmlns:wcseo="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1 http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1/wcsEOAll.xsd">
  <wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>someDatasetSeries1</wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>
  <eop:Footprint gml:id="footprint_someDatasetSeries1">
    <eop:multiExtentOf>
      <gml:MultiSurface gml:id="multisurface_someDatasetSeries1" srsName="EPSG:4326">
        <gml:surfaceMembers>
          <gml:Polygon gml:id="polygon_someDatasetSeries1">
            <gml:exterior>
              <gml:LinearRing>
                <gml:posList>43.516667 2.1025 43.381667 2.861667 42.862778 2.65 42.996389 1.896944 43.516667 2.1025</gml:posList>
              </gml:LinearRing>
            </gml:exterior>
          </gml:Polygon>
        </gml:surfaceMembers>
      </gml:MultiSurface>
    </eop:multiExtentOf>
  </eop:Footprint>
  <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="someDatasetSeries1_timeperiod">
    <gml:beginPosition>2008-03-13T00:00:00.000</gml:beginPosition>
    <gml:endPosition>2008-03-13T23:59:59.999</gml:endPosition>
  </gml:TimePeriod>
  <ows:Metadata>
    <wcseo:EOMetadata>
      <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someCatalogue.org/eop-metadata-from-someDatasetSeries1" xlink:role="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19115/-3/mdb/1.0" xlink:title="ISO 19115-3 Metadata" />
    </wcseo:EOMetadata>
  </ows:Metadata>
  <wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
    <wcs:CoverageId>someEOCoverage1</wcs:CoverageId>
  </wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
</wcseo:DatasetSeries>












7. EO service model



7.1. Overview


This Clause defines request types and their responses for operations on EO
Coverages. EO Coverages can be offered by a WCS server alongside with any other
type of coverage. Behavior of the service on non-EO Coverages remains
unchanged.






7.2. GetCapabilities operation


7.2.1. GetCapabilities request


The GetCapabilities request is extended over WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4] as
follows:




	
In the sections request parameter, values "DatasetSeriesSummary" and
"CoverageSummary" are allowed in addition to those defined in OWS Common
[06-121r9].






	Requirement 33 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-request-sections



If a GetCapabilities request contains an ows:Sections element then this
element shall contain ows:Section elements with the values defined in OWS
Common, or "DatasetSeriesSummary", or "CoverageSummary".

Dependency: [OGC 06-121r9] clause 7.3.3 






7.2.2. GetCapabilities response


The GetCapabilities response is extended over WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4] as
follows:




	
There is an additional DatasetSeriesSummary section reporting identifiers of
Dataset Series offered by the service on hand;


	
There is an optional constraint CountDefault specifying the maximum number
of CoverageDescription and DatasetSeriesDescription elements reported in a
DescribeEOCoverageSet response; and


	
For the eowcs_geteocoverageset conformance class there is an additional
<wcseo:wcseoMetadata element inside the wcs:Extension element of
the wcs:ServiceMetadata element to specify default and supported package
formats for the GetEOCoverageSet operation.







	
Note

	
An EO-WCS server may choose to not report, in the CoverageSummary
section of a GetCapabilities response, the identifiers of Stitched Mosaic
coverages referred to by some Dataset Series and the identifiers of Dataset
coverages referred to by some Stitched Mosaic or Dataset Series.






In a GetCapabilities response, a server announces availability of this EO-WCS
like an extension.



	Requirement 34 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile



A WCS service implementing this extension shall include the following URI in a
Profile element in the ServiceIdentification in a GetCapabilities
response:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs



	Requirement 35 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile



A WCS service implementing the eowcs_geteocoverageset conformance class of
this extension shall include the following URI in a Profile element in the
ServiceIdentification in a GetCapabilities response:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset



	Requirement 36 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-structure



The response to a successful GetCapabilities request shall consist of a data
structure as defined in Figure 7,
Table 7, and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard.

Dependency: [OGC 09-110r4] Clause 8
(http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/wcs-core-2.0.1/clause/8)








Figure 7. GetCapabilities response UML class diagram



Table 7. Components of EOWCS::DatasetSeriesSummary structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	DatasetSeriesId
	Identifier of a Dataset Series offered by this service
	NCName
	one (mandatory)

	wgs84BoundingBox
	Spatial extent of the Dataset Series
	OWS Common::WGS84BoundingBox
	one (mandatory)

	TimePeriod
	Time interval of validity of the Dataset Series
	GML:TimePeriod
	one (mandatory)

	metadata
	Reference to more metadata about this Dataset Series
	OWS Common::Metadata
	zero or one (optional)



	Requirement 37 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary



In the response to a successful GetCapabilities request containing a
EOWCS::DatasetSeriesSummary section, each Dataset Series identifier listed
shall refer to a Dataset Series offered by the server.



	Requirement 38 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-no-duplicates



A response to a successful GetCapabilities request containing a
EOWCS::DatasetSeriesSummary section shall not contain any duplicate Dataset
Series identifier. 



	Requirement 39 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary



In the response to a successful GetCapabilities request containing an EO
Coverage in a WCS::CoverageSummary section, each coverage identifier listed as
EO Coverage shall refer to an EO Coverage offered by the server.




The response shall respect the sections request parameter.



	Requirement 40 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary-section



If a GetCapabilities request contains a sections parameter then a successful
response shall contain wcs:CoverageSummary elements if and only if the
section parameter list contains one of the values "CoverageSummary", "Contents",
or "All". 



	Requirement 41 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-section



If a GetCapabilities request contains a sections parameter then a successful
response shall contain wcseo:DatasetSeriesSummary elements if and only if
the section parameter list contains one of the values "DatasetSeriesSummary",
"Contents", or "All". 




The coverage subtype shall indicate the specific type of the coverage returned, in case of an
EO Coverage.



	Requirement 42 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSubtype



In the response to a successful GetCapabilities request, each EO Coverage
listed shall contain in its WCS::CoverageSubtype element the value given in
Table 8 corresponding to its type. 



Table 8. Values for CoverageSubtype elements of EO Coverages	Type of coverage identified by CoverageIdentifier	CoverageSubtype value
	EOWCS::RectifiedDataset
	RectifiedDataset

	EOWCS::ReferenceableDataset
	ReferenceableDataset

	EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic
	RectifiedStitchedMosaic

	EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic
	ReferenceableStitchedMosaic



	Requirement 43 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-countDefault



If the response to a successful GetCapabilities request contains an
ows:Constraint element in its ows:OperationsMetadata element then its name
attribute shall hold a value as defined in Table 9 and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 



Table 9. Values for ows:Constraint elements	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	CountDefault
	Default value for the count parameter defined for
DescribeEOCoverageSet and GetEOCoverageSet requests.
	Integer greater
than or equal to zero
	zero or one (optional)

	ImplementsResultPaging
	Indicates if the server supports the ability to page
through a result set responding with count features at a time.
	Boolean;
either TRUE or FALSE
	zero or one (optional)




	
Note

	
Servers are strongly encouraged to specify a value for CountDefault as
means of self defense, so that a request may not clog the server.





	Requirement 44 
	/req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-paging-supported



The response to a successful GetCapabilities request to an EO-WCS supporting
paging shall contain ows:Contraint elements with name attribute values of
ImplementsResultPaging and CountDefault. The ImplementsResultPaging
constraint shall have a value of "TRUE". 



	Requirement 45 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-wcseoMetadata



The response to a successful GetCapabilities request to an EO-WCS supporting
the eowcs_geteocoverageset conformance class shall contain a
wcseo:wcseoMetadata element in the wcs:Extension element of
wcs:ServiceMetadata including at least a wcseo:defaultPackageFormat
element. 



	Requirement 46 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-defaultPackageFormat



The wcseo:defaultPackageFormat element delivered in the wcseo:wcseoMetadata
element of the response to a successful GetCapabilities request shall
specify the default format used for GetEOCoverageSet responses.



	Requirement 47 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-packageFormatSupported



The wcseo:packageFormatSupported element(s) delivered in the
wcseo:wcseoMetadata element of the response to a successful GetCapabilities
request shall list one to one the MIME type identifiers of all supported
packaging formats for the GetEOCoverageSet operation.




Example: The following XML excerpt shows a possible Contents section
containing Dataset Series information:





<wcs:Contents>
  <wcs:CoverageSummary>
    <wcs:CoverageId>someEOCoverage</wcs:CoverageId>
    <wcs:CoverageSubtype>RectifiedDataset</wcs:CoverageSubtype>
  </wcs:CoverageSummary>
  <wcs:Extension>
    <wcseo:DatasetSeriesSummary>
      <ows:WGS84BoundingBox>
        <ows:LowerCorner>-180 -90</ows:LowerCorner>
        <ows:UpperCorner>180 90</ows:UpperCorner>
        </ows:WGS84BoundingBox>
      <wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>someDatasetSeries</wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>
      <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="someDatasetSeries_timeperiod">
        <gml:beginPosition>2010-01-01T00:00:00.000</gml:beginPosition>
        <gml:endPosition>2010-12-31T23:59:59.999</gml:endPosition>
        </gml:TimePeriod>
      </wcseo:DatasetSeriesSummary>
  </wcs:Extension>
</wcs:Contents>






Example: The following XML excerpt shows a possible Constraint section
containing a CountDefault value:





<ows:OperationsMetadata>
  ...
  <ows:Constraint name="CountDefault">
    <ows:NoValues />
    <ows:DefaultValue>100</ows:DefaultValue>
  </ows:Constraint>
  <ows:Constraint name="ImplementsResultPaging">
    <ows:NoValues/>
    <ows:DefaultValue>TRUE</ows:DefaultValue>
  </ows:Constraint>
</ows:OperationsMetadata>






Example: The following XML excerpt shows a possible wcs:ServiceMetadata
section containing valid wcseo:packageFormatSupported elements:





<wcs:ServiceMetadata>
  <wcs:formatSupported>application/gml+xml</wcs:formatSupported>
  <wcs:formatSupported>image/tiff</wcs:formatSupported>
  <wcs:Extension>
    <wcseo:wcseoMetadata>
      <wcseo:defaultPackageFormat>application/metalink4+xml</wcseo:defaultPackageFormat>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/x-gzip</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/gzip</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/bzip</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/x-bzip</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/tar</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/x-tar</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/zip</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/metalink4+xml</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
      <wcseo:packageFormatSupported>application/metalink+xml</wcseo:packageFormatSupported>
    </wcseo:wcseoMetadata>
  </wcs:Extension>
</wcs:ServiceMetadata>










7.3. DescribeCoverage operation


7.3.1. DescribeCoverage request


The DescribeCoverage request is unchanged over WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4]. In
particular, identifiers of EO Coverages can be passed as input parameters.




	
Note

	
A DescribeCoverage request is possible on the identifiers of EO Coverages
offered by the server even if these are not listed in a GetCapabilities
response.








7.3.2. DescribeCoverage response


In a DescribeCoverage response, EO Coverage descriptions additionally contain
the EO Metadata record.



	Requirement 48 
	/req/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-eo-metadata



In the response to a successful DescribeCoverage request on an EO Coverage,
one EOWCS::EOMetadata element shall be present containing the EO Metadata
component of the coverage addressed. 




The coverage subtype shall indicate the specific type of the coverage returned,
in case of an EO Coverage.



	Requirement 49 
	/req/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-coverageSubtype



In the response to a successful DescribeCoverage request addressing an EO
Coverage, each EO Coverage listed shall contain in its WCS::CoverageSubtype
element the value given in Table 8 corresponding to its type.




Example: The following XML fragment shows parts of a possible DescribeCoverage
response on an EO Coverage:





<wcs:CoverageDescriptions>
  <wcs:CoverageDescription gml:id="c1">
    <gml:boundedBy>
      <gml:Envelope axisLabels="lat long" srsDimension="2" srsName="http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/EPSG/0/4326" uomLabels="deg deg">
        <gml:lowerCorner>42.862778 1.896944</gml:lowerCorner>
        <gml:upperCorner>43.516667 2.861667</gml:upperCorner>
      </gml:Envelope>
    </gml:boundedBy>
    <wcs:CoverageId>c1</wcs:CoverageId>
    <gmlcov:metadata>
      <gmlcov:Extension>
        <wcseo:EOMetadata>
          <eop:EarthObservation gml:id="eop_c1">
            <om:phenomenonTime>
              <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="tp_c1">
                <gml:beginPosition>2008-03-13T10:00:06.000</gml:beginPosition>
                <gml:endPosition>2008-03-13T10:20:26.000</gml:endPosition>
              </gml:TimePeriod>
            </om:phenomenonTime>
            <om:resultTime>
              <gml:TimeInstant gml:id="archivingdate_c1">
              <gmlcovl:timePosition>2001-08-13T11:02:47.999</gml:timePosition>
              </gml:TimeInstant>
            </om:resultTime>
            <om:procedure />
            <om:observedProperty />
            <om:featureOfInterest>
              <eop:Footprint gml:id="footprint_c1">
                <eop:multiExtentOf>
                  <gml:MultiSurface gml:id="multisurface_c1" srsName="EPSG:4326">
                    <gml:surfaceMember>
                      <gml:Polygon gml:id="polygon_c1">
                        <gml:exterior>
                          <gml:LinearRing>
                            <gml:posList>
                              43.516667 2.1025 43.381667 2.861667
                              42.862778 2.65 42.996389 1.896944
                              43.516667 2.1025
                            </gml:posList>
                          </gml:LinearRing>
                        </gml:exterior>
                      </gml:Polygon>
                    </gml:surfaceMember>
                  </gml:MultiSurface>
                </eop:multiExtentOf>
                <eop:centerOf>
                  <gml:Point gml:id="c1_p" srsName="EPSG:4326">
                    <gml:pos>43.190833 2.374167</gml:pos>
                  </gml:Point>
                </eop:centerOf>
              </eop:Footprint>
            </om:featureOfInterest>
            <om:result />
            <eop:metaDataProperty>
              <eop:EarthObservationMetaData>
              <eop:identifier>c1</eop:identifier>
              <eop:acquisitionType>NOMINAL</eop:acquisitionType>
              <eop:status>ARCHIVED</eop:status>
              </eop:EarthObservationMetaData>
            </eop:metaDataProperty>
          </eop:EarthObservation>
        </wcseo:EOMetadata>
      </gmlcov:Extension>
    </gmlcov:metadata>
    <gml:domainSet>
      <gml:RectifiedGrid dimension="2" gml:id="c1_grid">
        ...
      </gml:RectifiedGrid>
    </gml:domainSet>
    <gmlcov:rangeType>
      ...
    </gmlcov:rangeType>
    <wcs:ServiceParameters>
      <wcs:CoverageSubtype>RectifiedDataset</wcs:CoverageSubtype>
      <wcs:nativeFormat>image/tiff</wcs:nativeFormat>
    </wcs:ServiceParameters>
  </wcs:CoverageDescription>
</wcs:CoverageDescriptions>






	
Note

	
The complete example is provided with the schema files being part of this
standard.










7.4. GetCoverage operation


7.4.1. GetCoverage request


The GetCoverage request is unchanged over WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4], except that
for EO Coverages slicing is disallowed as it would leave the EO Metadata
undefined.




	
Note

	
A GetCoverage request is possible on the identifiers of EO Coverages
offered by the server even if these are not listed in a GetCapabilities
response.





	Requirement 50 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-request-no-slicing



A GetCoverage request on EO Coverages shall not contain a slicing operation.






7.4.2. GetCoverage response


The GetCoverage response is as defined in the WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4], however
extended in two respects:




	
The coverage returned contains exactly one metadata element holding the EO
Metadata record (it may contain further metadata elements in addition); and


	
The lineage component of the EO Metadata record returned consists of the
preexisting lineage sequence plus one element appended which describes the
GetCoverage request on hand.







	
Note

	
As always, whether all these elements will be available to a client
depends on the degree of support for the information items by the requested
coverage encoding.






On EO Coverages, a GetCoverage request shall produce a coverage of the type
corresponding to the coverage inspected.



	Requirement 51 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-coverage-type



The response to a successful GetCoverage request

- on a Rectified Stitched Mosaic shall be of type RectifiedStitchedMosaic,

- on a Rectified Dataset shall be of type RectifiedDataset,

- on a Referenceable Stitched Mosaic shall be of type
  ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and

- on a Referenceable Dataset shall be of type ReferenceableDataset.




The EO Metadata, including the extended lineage record, shall be delivered
alongside with the coverage data, adjusted according to the operations executed
during GetCoverage evaluation.



	Requirement 52 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata



In the response to a successful GetCoverage request on an EO Coverage, the
EOWCS::EOMetadata of the coverage returned shall contain the complete
EOWCS::EOMetadata of the coverage addressed, adjusted as specified in
Requirement 53 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata-in-stitched-mosaic,
Requirement 54 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-footprint-in-eo-metadata, and
Requirement 55 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-lineage-in-eo-metadata.



	Requirement 53 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata-in-stitched-mosaic



In the response to a successful GetCoverage request on a Stitched Mosaic, the
EOWCS::EOMetadata of the coverage returned shall contain the original
Stitched Mosaic’s references to those Datasets which have a non-empty
intersection with the effective spatio-temporal request trim interval, and no
other ones. 



	Requirement 54 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-footprint-in-eo-metadata



If, in a successful GetCoverage request on an EO Coverage, trimming along
spatial coordinates is specified then the footprint of the EOWCS::EOMetadata
in the coverage returned shall be given by the intersection of the spatial
request interval and the footprint of the coverage requested. Otherwise, the
footprint in the result coverage shall be given by the footprint of the
coverage requested. 




The lineage record shall be extended by a reproducible description of the
GetCoverage request originating this output.



	Requirement 55 
	/req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-lineage-in-eo-metadata



In the response to a successful GetCoverage request, the Lineage component
shall consist of the Lineage component of the coverage requested with one
record appended containing the complete, verbatim GetCoverage request leading
to this response. 




	
Note

	
This content is dependent on the protocol used by the requester. In case
of a GET/KVP request, this will be the request URL with parameters. In case of
an XML or SOAP request this will be an XML snippet.






Example: The following XML fragment shows parts of a possible GetCoverage
response for an EO Coverage:





<wcseo:RectifiedDataset xmlns:ows="http://www.opengis.net/ows/2.0"
xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2"
xmlns:gmlcov="http://www.opengis.net/gmlcov/1.0"
xmlns:swe="http://www.opengis.net/swe/2.0"
xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0"
xmlns:wcseo="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1"
xmlns:eop="http://www.opengis.net/eop/2.1"
xmlns:om="http://www.opengis.net/om/2.0"
xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1
http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1/wcsEOGetCoverage.xsd" gml:id="c1">
  <gml:boundedBy>
    ...
  </gml:boundedBy>
  <gml:domainSet>
    ...
  </gml:domainSet>
  <gml:rangeSet>
    ...
  </gml:rangeSet>
  <gmlcov:rangeType>
    ...
  </gmlcov:rangeType>
  <gmlcov:metadata>
    <gmlcov:Extension>
      <wcseo:EOMetadata>
        <eop:EarthObservation gml:id="eop_c1">
          <om:phenomenonTime>
            <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="tp_c1">
              <gml:beginPosition>2008-03-13T10:00:06.000</gml:beginPosition>
              <gml:endPosition>2008-03-13T10:20:26.000</gml:endPosition>
            </gml:TimePeriod>
          </om:phenomenonTime>
          <om:resultTime>
            <gml:TimeInstant gml:id="archivingdate_c1">
              <gml:timePosition>2008-03-13T11:02:47.999</gml:timePosition>
            </gml:TimeInstant>
          </om:resultTime>
          <om:procedure>
            ...
          </om:procedure>
          <om:observedProperty />
          <om:featureOfInterest>
            ...
          </om:featureOfInterest>
          <om:result>
            ...
          </om:result>
          <eop:metaDataProperty>
            ...
          /eop:metaDataProperty>
        </eop:EarthObservation>
        <wcseo:lineage>
          <!-- GetCoverage request via KVP -->
          <wcseo:referenceGetCoverage>
            <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someWCS.org?SERVICE=WCS&amp;VERSION=2.0.1&amp;REQUEST=GetCoverage&amp;COVERAGEID=c1&amp;FORMAT=application/gml+xml&amp;MEDIATYPE=multipart/related" />
          </wcseo:referenceGetCoverage>
          <gml:timePosition>2011-02-04T15:45:52Z</gml:timePosition>
        </wcseo:lineage>
        <wcseo:lineage>
          <!-- GetCoverage request via POST -->
          <wcseo:referenceGetCoverage>
            <ows:ServiceReference xlink:href="http://www.someWCS.org">
              <ows:RequestMessage>
                <wcs:GetCoverage xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0" xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0 http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/2.0/wcsAll.xsd" service="WCS" version="2.0.1">
                  <wcs:CoverageId>c1</wcs:CoverageId>
                  <wcs:format>application/gml+xml</wcs:format>
                  <wcs:mediaType>multipart/related</wcs:mediaType>
                </wcs:GetCoverage>
                </ows:RequestMessage>
              </ows:ServiceReference>
            </wcseo:referenceGetCoverage>
          <gml:timePosition>2011-02-04T15:45:52Z</gml:timePosition>
        </wcseo:lineage>
      </wcseo:EOMetadata>
    </gmlcov:Extension>
  </gmlcov:metadata>
</wcseo:RectifiedDataset>










7.5. DescribeEOCoverageSet operation


7.5.1. Overview


A DescribeEOCoverageSet request submits one or more Dataset Series, Stitched
Mosaic, or Dataset identifiers together with a spatio-temporal subsetting
criterion ("bounding box"). The spatial constraint is expressed in WGS84
[4], the temporal constraint in ISO 8601 [2].




The response to a successful request on a Dataset Series consists of a (possibly
empty) set of descriptions of Datasets and Stitched Mosaics and a (possibly
empty) set of descriptions of Dataset Series. The response to a successful
request on a Stitched Mosaic consists of a (possibly empty) set of descriptions
of Datasets. In any case, the result items are those ones which are (i) referred
to directly or via Dataset Series by the object submitted and (ii) matched by
the bounding box. The type of matching - contains or overlaps - is specified
in the request.






7.5.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet request

	Requirement 56 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure



A DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall consist of a structure as defined in
Figure 8, Table 10 and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 








Figure 8. DescribeEOCoverageSet request UML diagram



Table 10. Components of DescribeEOCoverageSet operation request	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	request
	Request name
	String , fixed to "DescribeEOCoverageSet"
	one
(mandatory)

	eoId
	Identifier of Dataset Series, Stitched Mosaic, or Dataset to be
evaluated
	NCName
	one or more (mandatory)

	containment
	Intersection mode for evaluation of object bounding box against
request parameters
	String
	zero or one (optional)

	count
	Maximum number of CoverageDescription and DatasetSeriesDescription
elements to be included in the response
	Integer greater than zero
	zero or
one (optional)

	startIndex
	Index number within the result set from which the server shall
begin presenting results in the response (the index number of the first search
result is 0)
	Integer greater than or equal to zero. Default 0
	zero or one
(optional)

	sections
	Unordered list of zero or more names of the XML elements that shall
be returned
	String
	zero or one (optional)

	dimensionTrim
	trim specification, as per WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4] Subclause
8.4.1
	WCS::DimensionTrim
	zero or more (optional)




The DescribeEOCoverageSet request type contains two sections (cf. [OGC
06-121r9] Clause 7.3.3) whose appearance in the response can be controlled by
the client through the optional sections parameter.



	Requirement 57 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-sections



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains an ows: Sections element then
this element shall contain one of the values "CoverageDescriptions",
"DatasetSeriesDescriptions", or "All".

Dependency: [OGC 06-121r9] clause 7.3.3 




	
Note

	
This use of the sections parameter is similar to its use in
GetCapabilities as defined in OWS Common [OGC 06-121r9].





	Requirement 58 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-eoId



Each eoId parameter value in a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be
equal to the identifier of a Dataset, a Stitched Mosaic, or a Dataset Series
offered by the server addressed. 




	
Note

	
A DescribeEOCoverageSet request is possible on the identifiers of
objects offered by the server even if these are not listed in a GetCapabilities
response.





	Requirement 59 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-containment



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains a containment parameter then
this parameter shall have one of the values "contains" or "overlaps".



	Requirement 60 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains dimensionTrim elements with
dimension parameters then each such dimension parameter shall have one of
the values "lat", "long", or "phenomenonTime". Each of these values shall
appear at most once in a given request. 



	Requirement 61 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-crs



A DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall use WGS84 [4] as spatial and
ISO 8601 [2] as temporal CRS for the coordinates in trim requests.




	
Note

	
Trim coordinates are not required to lie within the boundaries of the EO
Coverage inquired.






Example: The following XML instance shows a possible DescribeEOCoverageSet
operation request:





<wcseo:DescribeEOCoverageSet xmlns:wcseo="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1" xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1 http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1/wcsEOAll.xsd" service="WCS" version="2.0.1" count="100" startIndex="0">
  <wcseo:eoId>DS1</wcseo:eoId>
  <wcseo:containment>overlaps</wcseo:containment>
  <wcseo:sections>
    <wcseo:section>All</wcseo:section>
  </wcseo:sections>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>long</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>16</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>18</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>lat</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>40</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>42</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>phenomenonTime</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>2008-03-13T10:10:00Z</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>2008-03-13T10:11:00Z</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
</wcseo:DescribeEOCoverageSet>








7.5.3. DescribeEOCoverageSet response


The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request consists of a
(possibly empty) set of EO Coverage descriptions and a (possibly empty) set of
Dataset Series descriptions (cf. Figure 9).



	Requirement 62 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall consist of
a EOWCS::EOCoverageSetDescription structure as defined in
Table 11, Figure 9 and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard.

Dependency: [OGC 09-110r4] Subclause 8.3.2
(http://www.opengis.net/doc/IS/WCS/2.0/clause/8) 



Table 11. Components of EOCoverageSetDescription structure	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	datasetSeriesDescriptions
	Unordered sequence of DatasetSeries descriptions
	DatasetSeriesDescriptions
	zero or one (optional)

	coverageDescriptions
	Unordered sequence of coverage descriptions
	WCS::CoverageDescriptions
	zero or one (optional)








Figure 9. DescribeEOCoverageSet response UML diagram



	Requirement 63 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eo-metadata



Each WCS::CoverageDescription listed in the response to a successful
DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall contain one EOWCS::EOMetadata element
containing the EO Metadata component of the EO Coverage to be described.




The response shall respect the sections request parameter.



	Requirement 64 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-coverageDescriptions



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains a sections parameter then a
successful response shall contain a wcs:CoverageDescriptions element if and
only if the section parameter list contains one of the values
"CoverageDescriptions" or "All". 



	Requirement 65 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-datasetSeriesDescriptions



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains a sections parameter then a
successful response shall contain a wcseo:DatasetSeriesDescriptions element
if and only if the section parameter list contains one of the values
"DatasetSeriesDescriptions" or "All". 




Such a response contains only EO Coverages directly referred to by the object(s)
addressed in the request or via referred Dataset Series.



	Requirement 66 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eoId



In the response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a
wcs:CoverageDescriptions section, each EO Coverage referred to by one of the
objects identified in the eoId request parameter shall appear at most once.



	Requirement 67 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-referred



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a
wcs:CoverageDescriptions section shall contain the descriptions of exactly
those EO Coverages referred to directly or indirectly via Dataset Series by one
of the objects identified in the eoId request parameter, without any
duplicates. 




	
Note

	
A Dataset referred to by a Dataset Series referred to by another Dataset
Series is implicitly referred to by the later Dataset Series and thus always
reported by a DescribeEOCoverageSet request against the later Dataset Series.
However, it is allowed that such a Dataset is also referred to by the first
Dataset Series but it is only reported once.






	
Note

	
A Dataset referred to by a Stitched Mosaic referred to by a Dataset Series
is not per se referred to by that Dataset Series and thus not reported by a
DescribeEOCoverageSet request against the Dataset Series. However, it is allowed
that such a Dataset is also referred to by the enclosing Dataset Series.






Spatial subsetting is evaluated against the eop:Footprint element contained in
the EOMetadata element of an EO Coverage.



	Requirement 68 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-containment



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a
wcs:CoverageDescriptions section shall contain only descriptions of those EO
Coverages whose spatial footprint defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint

- overlaps with the spatial request extent, and the request parameter
  containment is of value overlaps or is omitted,

- is completely contained within the spatial request extent, and the request
  parameter containment is of value contains

whereby all spatial coordinates are expressed in WGS84 [4].




Temporal subsetting is evaluated against the temporal validity of an EO
Coverage.



	Requirement 69 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a
wcs:CoverageDescriptions section shall contain only descriptions of EO
Coverages whose time interval defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition elements
in wcseo:EOMetadata

- overlaps with the request time extent, and the request parameter containment
  is of value overlaps or is omitted,

- is completely contained within the request time extent, and the request
  parameter containment is of value contains,

whereby all temporal coordinates are expressed in ISO 8601 [2].




Boundary values omitted are substituted by the actual boundary value of the
object inquired.



	Requirement 70 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted



In a DescribeEOCoverageSet request, a trim specification omitted shall be
interpreted as the actual boundary of the objects requested in the axis omitted.



	Requirement 71 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted



In a DescribeEOCoverageSet request, a lower or upper bound omitted shall be
interpreted as indicating the actual lower or upper bound of the objects
requested in the axis omitted. 




	
Note

	
This trim semantics is analogous to trimming in GetCoverage.





	Requirement 72 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-coverageSubtype



In the response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request, each EO
Coverage listed shall contain in its WCS::CoverageSubtype element the
corresponding value given in Table 8 according to its type.



	Requirement 73 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-count



In the response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request the sum of
CoverageDescription and DatasetSeriesDescription elements shall be less
or equal to the minimum of the value of the CountDefault element and the
count parameter if present in the request. If none of both are present all
matching elements shall be reported. 




	
Note

	
The count parameter is used in the same ways as the itemsPerPage
element in the OpenSearch Specification [7].





	Requirement 74 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex



If a DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains a wcs:startIndex parameter then
a successful response shall contain only those CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements whose index numbers in the result set are
equal or higher than the value of the startIndex parameter.




	
Note

	
A server is assumed to apply a consistent ordering to the result set.





	Requirement 75 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its numberMatched attribute the sum of all matching CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements. 



	Requirement 76 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its numberReturned attribute the sum of all CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements included in the response.



	Requirement 77 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its startIndex attribute the index number of the first element in the result
set of all CoverageDescription and DatasetSeriesDescription elements
returned. 



	Requirement 78 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-next



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its next attribute the URI to retrieve the next page of results as specified
by the count and startIndex parameters. The next attribute shall only
be present if elements with a higher index in the result set than the returned
ones are available. 



	Requirement 79 
	/req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-previous



The response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its previous attribute the URI to retrieve the previous page of results as
specified by the count and startIndex parameters. The previous attribute
shall only be present if elements with a lower index in the result set than
the returned ones are available. 




	
Note

	
The specific format of the next and previous URIs is implementation
dependent as are the details of how or if the server caches the results of an
operation in order to be able to present them to the client one subset at a
time.






	
Note

	
The count, startIndex, next, and previous parameters used for
paging are defined in the same way as in the OpenGIS Web Feature Service 2.0
Interface Standard [8].






Example: The following XML fragment shows parts of a possible
DescribeEOCoverageSet operation response:





<wcseo:EOCoverageSetDescription numberMatched="2" numberReturned="2" startIndex="0">
  <wcs:CoverageDescriptions>
    <wcs:CoverageDescription gml:id="c1">
      <gml:boundedBy>
        ...
      </gml:boundedBy>
      <wcs:CoverageId>c1</wcs:CoverageId>
      <gmlcov:metadata>
        <gmlcov:Extension>
          <wcseo:EOMetadata>
            <eop:EarthObservation gml:id="c1_metadata">
              ...
            </eop:EarthObservation>
          </wcseo:EOMetadata>
        </gmlcov:Extension>
      </gmlcov:metadata>
      <gml:domainSet>
        ...
      </gml:domainSet>
      <gmlcov:rangeType>
        ...
      </gmlcov:rangeType>
      <wcs:ServiceParameters>
        <wcs:CoverageSubtype>RectifiedStitchedMosaic</wcs:CoverageSubtype>
        <wcseo:dataset>
          <wcs:CoverageId>c3</wcs:CoverageId>
        </wcseo:dataset>
      </wcs:ServiceParameters>
    </wcs:CoverageDescription>
  </wcs:CoverageDescriptions>
  <wcseo:DatasetSeriesDescriptions>
    <wcseo:DatasetSeriesDescription gml:id="ds2">
      <gml:boundedBy>
        <gml:Envelope axisLabels="lat long" srsDimension="2" srsName="http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/EPSG/0/4326" uomLabels="deg deg">
          <gml:lowerCorner>46 16</gml:lowerCorner>
          <gml:upperCorner>48 18</gml:upperCorner>
        </gml:Envelope>
      </gml:boundedBy>
      <wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>ds2</wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>
      <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="ds2_timeperiod">
        <gml:beginPosition>2010-01-01T00:00:00.000</gml:beginPosition>
        <gml:endPosition>2010-12-31T23:59:59.999</gml:endPosition>
      </gml:TimePeriod>
    </wcseo:DatasetSeriesDescription>
  </wcseo:DatasetSeriesDescriptions>
</wcseo:EOCoverageSetDescription>








7.5.4. DescribeEOCoverageSet exceptions

Table 12. Exception codes for DescribeEOCoverageSet operation	exceptionCode value	HTTP code	Meaning of exception code	locator value
	NoSuchDatasetSeriesOrCoverage
	404
	The identifier passed does not match with
any of the DatasetSeries or EO Coverages offered by this server
	List of
violating Dataset Series and/or EO Coverage identifiers








7.6. GetEOCoverageSet operation


7.6.1. Overview


Just like the DescribeEOCoverageSet request, a GetEOCoverageSet request
submits one or more Dataset Series, Stitched Mosaic, or Dataset identifiers
together with a spatio-temporal subsetting criterion ("bounding box"). By
default, the spatial constraint is expressed in WGS84 [4], the temporal
constraint in ISO 8601 [2].




Additionally, the GetEOCoverageSet request allows to submit simple processing
like scaling, interpolation, output CRS, format, and actually applying the
subsetting.




The response to a successful request on a Dataset Series consists of a (possibly
empty) set of coverages of Datasets and Stitched Mosaics. The response to a
successful request on a Stitched Mosaic consists of a (possibly empty) set of
coverages of Datasets. In any case, the result items are those ones which are
(i) referred to directly or via Dataset Series by the object submitted and (ii)
matched by the bounding box. The type of matching - contains or overlaps -
is specified in the request.




	
Note

	
Using the GetEOCoverageSet operation allows to retrieve entire or
subsetted coverages in their native or any given format with limited processing
like subsetting or scaling applied. To request advanced processing the
GetCoverage operation may be used.








7.6.2. GetEOCoverageSet request

	Requirement 80 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure



A GetEOCoverageSet request shall consist of a structure as defined in
Figure 10, Table 13 and the
XML Schema being part of this
standard. 








Figure 10. GetEOCoverageSet request UML diagram



Table 13. Components of GetEOCoverageSet operation request	Name	Definition	Data type	Multiplicity
	request
	Request name
	String , fixed to "GetEOCoverageSet"
	one
(mandatory)

	eoId
	Identifier of Dataset Series, Stitched Mosaic, or Dataset to be
evaluated
	NCName
	one or more (mandatory)

	containment
	Intersection mode for evaluation of object bounding box against
request parameters
	String
	zero or one (optional)

	count
	Maximum number of WCS::Coverage elements to be included in the
response
	Integer greater than zero
	zero or one (optional)

	startIndex
	Index number within the result set from which the server shall
begin presenting results in the response (the index number of the first search
result is 0)
	Integer greater than or equal to zero. Default 0
	zero or one
(optional)

	dimensionTrim
	trim specification, as per WCS Core [OGC 09-110r4] Subclause
8.4.1
	WCS::DimensionTrim
	zero or more (optional)

	packageFormat
	MIME type identifier of the format in which the coverages
returned are to be packaged e.g., application/x-gzip
	anyURI
	zero or one
(optional)

	mediaType
	If present, enforces a multipart encoding
	anyURI, fixed to
"multipart/related"
	zero or one (optional)

	format
	MIME type identifier of the format in which the coverages returned are
to be encoded
	anyURI
	zero or one (optional)

	applySubset
	Determining if the given subset should be applied to the
coverages returned
	boolean
	zero or one (optional)

	Scaling
	Scaling to be applied to coverages returned
	scal:Scaling
	zero
or one (optional)

	Interpolation
	Interpolation method to be applied on all axes during
GetEOCoverageSet result preparation
	int:Interpolation
	zero or one
(optional)

	subsettingCrs
	CRS Identifier indicating the CRS in which the request
subsetting coordinates are expressed
	crs:subsettingCrs
	zero or one
(optional)

	outputCrs
	CRS Identifier indicating the CRS of the result coverages
	crs:outputCrs
	zero or one (optional)



	Requirement 81 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-eoId



Each eoId parameter value in a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
equal to the identifier of a Dataset, a Stitched Mosaic, or a Dataset Series
offered by the server addressed. 




	
Note

	
A GetEOCoverageSet request is possible on the identifiers of
objects offered by the server even if these are not listed in a GetCapabilities
response.





	Requirement 82 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-containment



If a GetEOCoverageSet request contains a containment parameter then
this parameter shall have one of the values "contains" or "overlaps".




The subsetting is interpreted similar to the DescribeEOCoverageSet operation.
In addition alternative subsetting is allowed using the subsettingCrs
parameter as defined by the WCS CRS Extension [OGC 11-053r1].



	Requirement 83 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions



If a GetEOCoverageSet request contains dimensionTrim elements with
dimension parameters and no subsettingCrs element then each such dimension
parameter shall have one of the values "lat", "long", or "phenomenonTime".
Each of these values shall appear at most once in a given request.



	Requirement 84 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-crs



A GetEOCoverageSet request shall use WGS84 [4] as spatial and
ISO 8601 [2] as temporal CRS for the coordinates in trim requests if no
subsettingCrs element is present. 




	
Note

	
Trim coordinates are not required to lie within the boundaries of the EO
Coverage inquired.






The package encoding format in which the coverages are returned is specified
by the combination of the packageFormat and mediaType parameters. Admissible
values (i.e, package formats supported) are those listed in the server’s
Capabilities document. The default is the also reported in the server’s
Capabilities document.



	Requirement 85 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-packageFormat



If a GetCoverage request contains a packageFormat parameter then this
parameter shall contain a MIME type identifier occurring in some
wcseo:packageFormatSupported element of the response to a successful
GetCapabilities request to this server. 



	Requirement 86 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-mediaType



If a GetCoverage request contains a mediaType parameter then this parameter
shall contain a MIME type identifier of fixed value "multipart/related".




The encoding format in which the coverages themselves are returned is specified
by the format parameter. Admissible values (i.e, formats supported) are those
listed in the server’s Capabilities document. Note that only one format
applicable for all coverages to be returned can be specified. Default is the
coverage’s Native Format of each coverage to be returned.



	Requirement 87 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-format



If a GetCoverage request contains a format parameter then this parameter
shall contain a MIME type identifier occurring in some wcs:formatSupported
element of the response to a successful GetCapabilities request to this
server. 




A general scaling and interpolation can be requested that is equally applied to
all coverages returned.



	Requirement 88 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-scaling



If a GetCoverage request contains a Scaling parameter then this parameter
shall follow the specification given in the WCS Scaling Extension
[OGC 12-039]. 



	Requirement 89 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-interpolation



If a GetCoverage request contains a Interpolation parameter then this
parameter shall follow the specification given in the WCS Interpolation
Extension [OGC 12-049]. 




A general output CRS as well as CRS for subsetting can be requested that is
equally applied to all coverages returned.



	Requirement 90 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-crss



If a GetCoverage request contains a subsettingCrs and/or outputCrs
parameter then this parameter(s) shall follow the specification given in the
WCS CRS Extension [OGC 11-053r1]. 




Example: The following XML instance shows a possible GetEOCoverageSet
operation request:





<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<wcseo:GetEOCoverageSet xmlns:wcseo="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1" xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0" xmlns:int="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/interpolation/1.0" xmlns:scal="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/scaling/1.0" xmlns:crs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/crs/1.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1 http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1/wcsEOAll.xsd" service="WCS" version="2.0.1" count="100" startIndex="0">
  <wcseo:eoId>someDatasetSeries1</wcseo:eoId>
  <wcseo:containment>OVERLAPS</wcseo:containment>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>long</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>16</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>18</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>lat</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>40</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>42</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
  <wcs:DimensionTrim>
    <wcs:Dimension>phenomenonTime</wcs:Dimension>
    <wcs:TrimLow>2008-03-13T10:10:00Z</wcs:TrimLow>
    <wcs:TrimHigh>2008-03-13T10:11:00Z</wcs:TrimHigh>
  </wcs:DimensionTrim>
  <wcseo:packageFormat>application/x-gzip</wcseo:packageFormat>
  <wcseo:mediaType>multipart/related</wcseo:mediaType>
  <wcseo:format>image/tiff</wcseo:format>
  <wcseo:applySubset>true</wcseo:applySubset>
  <int:Interpolation>
    <int:globalInterpolation>http://www.opengis.net/def/interpolation/OGC/1/nearest-neighbor</int:globalInterpolation>
  </int:Interpolation>
  <scal:Scaling>
    <scal:ScaleByFactor>
      <scal:scaleFactor>2.0</scal:scaleFactor>
    </scal:ScaleByFactor>
  </scal:Scaling>
  <wcscrs:subsettingCrs>http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/EPSG/0/4326</wcscrs:subsettingCrs>
  <wcscrs:outputCrs>http://www.opengis.net/def/crs/EPSG/0/4326</wcscrs:outputCrs>
</wcseo:GetEOCoverageSet>








7.6.3. GetEOCoverageSet response


The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request consists of a (possibly
empty) packaged set of EO Coverages. Each individual coverage itself is
structured the same way as resulting from a GetCoverage request.



	Requirement 91 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat



The contents of the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall
be encoded as specified by the packageFormat parameter, if this parameter is
present in the request, and in the service’s default package format as reported
in the wcseo:defaultPackageFormat element of the Capabilities if this
parameter is not present. 



	Requirement 92 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-multipart



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request containing a
mediaType parameter with value multipart/related shall follow the
definitions of conformance class multipart of the OGC® Coverage
Implementation Schema [OGC 09-146r2].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/GMLCOV/1.0/conf/multipart



	Requirement 93 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request containing a mediaType
parameter with value multipart/related shall consist of a
wcseo:EOCoverageSet structure as defined in the
XML Schema being part of this
standard in its first part. The second part of the multipart response shall
be encoded as specified by
Requirement 91 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat.



	Requirement 94 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-cid



The first part of the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request
containing a mediaType parameter with value multipart/related shall
reference individual coverages inside the package in the second part of the
multipart response by appending the filename after a ; character to the
cid. 




	
Note

	
The usage of cid is defined in [OGC 09-146r2].





	Requirement 95 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-format



The EO Coverages contained in the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet
request shall be encoded as specified by the format parameter, if this
parameter is present, and in the coverage’s Native Format if this parameter is
not present. 




The requirements defined for the GetCoverage response like containing EO
Metadata or adding a lineage component apply to each EO Coverage included in a
GetEOCoverageSet response package.



	Requirement 96 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-getCoverage



Each EO Coverage contained in the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet
request shall adhere to the requirements defined for the GetCoverage
response in subclause GetCoverage response. 




A GetEOCoverageSet response contains only EO Coverages directly referred to by
the object(s) addressed in the request or via referred Dataset Series.



	Requirement 97 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-eoId



In the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request each EO Coverage
referred to by one of the objects identified in the eoId request parameter
shall appear at most once. 



	Requirement 98 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-referred



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall contain exactly
those EO Coverages referred to directly or indirectly via Dataset Series by one
of the objects identified in the eoId request parameter, without any
duplicates. 




	
Note

	
A Dataset referred to by a Dataset Series referred to by another Dataset
Series is implicitly referred to by the later Dataset Series and thus always
reported by a GetEOCoverageSet request against the later Dataset Series.
However, it is allowed that such a Dataset is also referred to by the first
Dataset Series but it is only reported once.






	
Note

	
A Dataset referred to by a Stitched Mosaic referred to by a Dataset Series
is not per se referred to by that Dataset Series and thus not reported by a
GetEOCoverageSet request against the Dataset Series. However, it is allowed
that such a Dataset is also referred to by the enclosing Dataset Series.






Spatial subsetting is evaluated against the eop:Footprint element contained in
the EOMetadata element of an EO Coverage.



	Requirement 99 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-containment



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall contain only
those EO Coverages whose spatial footprint defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint

- overlaps with the spatial request extent, and the request parameter
  containment is of value overlaps or is omitted,

- is completely contained within the spatial request extent, and the request
  parameter containment is of value contains

whereby all spatial coordinates are expressed in WGS84 [4] if no
subsettingCrs parameter is present. 




Temporal subsetting is evaluated against the temporal validity of an EO
Coverage.



	Requirement 100 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall contain only EO
Coverages whose time interval defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition elements
in wcseo:EOMetadata

- overlaps with the request time extent, and the request parameter containment
  is of value overlaps or is omitted,

- is completely contained within the request time extent, and the request
  parameter containment is of value contains,

whereby all temporal coordinates are expressed in ISO 8601 [2] if no
subsettingCrs parameter is present. 




Boundary values omitted are substituted by the actual boundary value of the
object inquired.



	Requirement 101 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted



In a GetEOCoverageSet request, a trim specification omitted shall be
interpreted as the actual boundary of the objects requested in the axis omitted.



	Requirement 102 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted



In a GetEOCoverageSet request, a lower or upper bound omitted shall be
interpreted as indicating the actual lower or upper bound of the objects
requested in the axis omitted. 




	
Note

	
This trim semantics is analogous to trimming in GetCoverage.





	Requirement 103 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-count



In the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request the sum of
RectifiedDataset, ReferenceableDataset, RectifiedStitchedMosaic,
ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and DatasetSeries elements shall be less or
equal to the minimum of the value of the CountDefault element and the count
parameter if present in the request. If none of both are present all matching
elements shall be reported. 




	
Note

	
The count parameter is used in the same ways as the itemsPerPage
element in the OpenSearch Specification [7].





	Requirement 104 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex



If a GetEOCoverageSet request contains a wcs:startIndex parameter then a
successful response shall contain only those RectifiedDataset,
ReferenceableDataset, RectifiedStitchedMosaic,
ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and DatasetSeries elements whose index numbers
in the result set are equal or higher than the value of the startIndex
parameter. 




	
Note

	
A server is assumed to apply a consistent ordering to the result set.





	Requirement 105 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall report in its
numberMatched attribute the sum of all matching RectifiedDataset,
ReferenceableDataset, RectifiedStitchedMosaic,
ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and DatasetSeries elements.



	Requirement 106 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall report in its
numberReturned attribute the sum of all RectifiedDataset,
ReferenceableDataset, RectifiedStitchedMosaic,
ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and DatasetSeries elements included in the
response. 



	Requirement 107 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its startIndex attribute the index number of the first element in the result
set of all RectifiedDataset, ReferenceableDataset,
RectifiedStitchedMosaic, ReferenceableStitchedMosaic, and DatasetSeries
elements returned. 



	Requirement 108 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-next



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its next attribute the URI to retrieve the next page of results as specified
by the count and startIndex parameters. The next attribute shall only
be present if elements with a higher index in the result set than the returned
ones are available. 



	Requirement 109 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-previous



The response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request shall report in
its previous attribute the URI to retrieve the previous page of results as
specified by the count and startIndex parameters. The previous attribute
shall only be present if elements with a lower index in the result set than
the returned ones are available. 




	
Note

	
The specific format of the next and previous URIs is implementation
dependent as are the details of how or if the server caches the results of an
operation in order to be able to present them to the client one subset at a
time.






	
Note

	
The count, startIndex, next, and previous parameters used for
paging are defined in the same way as in the OpenGIS Web Feature Service 2.0
Interface Standard [8].






The spatial subsetting requested may be applied to the EO Coverages to be
returned. Default is to respond with entire coverages.



	Requirement 110 
	/req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-applySubset



Each EO Coverage contained in the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet
request containing an applySubset parameter with value true shall be
subsetted as specified by the crs-gridded-coverage conformance class of the
WCS CRS Extension [OGC 11-053r1]. 




A requested general scaling and interpolation is equally applied to all
coverages returned.



	Requirement 111 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-scaling



If a GetCoverage request contains a Scaling parameter then this parameter
shall be applied individually to each EO Coverage to be returned as specified
by the WCS Scaling Extension [OGC 12-039]. 



	Requirement 112 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-interpolation



If a GetCoverage request contains a Interpolation parameter then this
parameter shall be applied individually to each EO Coverage to be returned as
specified by the WCS Interpolation Extension [OGC 12-049].




A requested general output CRS as well as CRS for subsetting is equally applied
to all coverages returned.



	Requirement 113 
	/req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-crss



If a GetCoverage request contains a subsettingCrs and/or outputCrs
parameter then this parameter(s) shall be applied individually to each
EO Coverage to be returned as specified by the WCS CRS Extension [OGC 11-053r1].




Example: The following XML fragment shows parts of the first part of a possible
GetEOCoverageSet operation multipart response:





<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<wcseo:EOCoverageSet numberMatched="3" numberReturned="3" startIndex="0" xmlns:ows="http://www.opengis.net/ows/2.0" xmlns:gml="http://www.opengis.net/gml/3.2" xmlns:gmlcov="http://www.opengis.net/gmlcov/1.0" xmlns:swe="http://www.opengis.net/swe/2.0" xmlns:wcs="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/2.0" xmlns:wcseo="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1" xmlns:eop="http://www.opengis.net/eop/2.1" xmlns:om="http://www.opengis.net/om/2.0" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1 http://schemas.opengis.net/wcs/wcseo/1.1/wcsEOAll.xsd">
  <wcseo:RectifiedDataset gml:id="someEOCoverage1">
    <gml:boundedBy>
      ...
    </gml:boundedBy>
    <gml:domainSet>
      ...
    </gml:domainSet>
    <gml:rangeSet>
      <gml:File>
        <gml:rangeParameters xlink:arcrole="fileReference" xlink:href="cid:coverages.meta4;someEOCoverage1.tif" xlink:role="http://www.opengis.net/spec/GMLCOV_geotiff-coverages/1.0/conf/geotiff-coverage" />
        <gml:fileReference>cid:coverages.meta4;someEOCoverage1.tif</gml:fileReference>
        <gml:fileStructure />
        <gml:mimeType>image/tiff</gml:mimeType>
      </gml:File>
    </gml:rangeSet>
    <gmlcov:rangeType>
      ...
    </gmlcov:rangeType>
    <gmlcov:metadata>
      <gmlcov:Extension>
        <wcseo:EOMetadata>
          <eop:EarthObservation gml:id="eop_someEOCoverage1">
            ...
          </eop:EarthObservation>
          <wcseo:lineage>
            <wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
              <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someWCS.org?SERVICE=WCS&amp;VERSION=2.0.1&amp;REQUEST=GetEOCoverageSet&amp;EOID=someDatasetSeries1&amp;PACKAGEFORMAT=application/metalink4+xml&amp;MEDIATYPE=multipart/related" />
            </wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
            <gml:timePosition>2016-05-17T12:25:40Z</gml:timePosition>
          </wcseo:lineage>
        </wcseo:EOMetadata>
      </gmlcov:Extension>
    </gmlcov:metadata>
  </wcseo:RectifiedDataset>
  <wcseo:RectifiedDataset gml:id="someEOCoverage2">
    <gml:boundedBy>
      ...
    </gml:boundedBy>
    <gml:domainSet>
      ...
    </gml:domainSet>
    <gml:rangeSet>
      <gml:File>
        <gml:rangeParameters xlink:arcrole="fileReference" xlink:href="cid:coverages.meta4;someEOCoverage2.tif" xlink:role="http://www.opengis.net/spec/GMLCOV_geotiff-coverages/1.0/conf/geotiff-coverage" />
        <gml:fileReference>cid:coverages.meta4;someEOCoverage2.tif</gml:fileReference>
        <gml:fileStructure />
        <gml:mimeType>image/tiff</gml:mimeType>
      </gml:File>
    </gml:rangeSet>
    <gmlcov:rangeType>
      ...
    </gmlcov:rangeType>
    <gmlcov:metadata>
      <gmlcov:Extension>
        <wcseo:EOMetadata>
          <eop:EarthObservation gml:id="eop_someEOCoverage2">
            ...
          </eop:EarthObservation>
          <wcseo:lineage>
            <wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
              <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someWCS.org?SERVICE=WCS&amp;VERSION=2.0.1&amp;REQUEST=GetEOCoverageSet&amp;EOID=someDatasetSeries1&amp;PACKAGEFORMAT=application/metalink4+xml&amp;MEDIATYPE=multipart/related" />
            </wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
            <gml:timePosition>2016-05-17T12:25:40Z</gml:timePosition>
          </wcseo:lineage>
        </wcseo:EOMetadata>
      </gmlcov:Extension>
    </gmlcov:metadata>
  </wcseo:RectifiedDataset>
  <wcseo:DatasetSeries>
    <wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>someDatasetSeries1</wcseo:DatasetSeriesId>
    <eop:Footprint gml:id="footprint_someDatasetSeries1">
      ...
    </eop:Footprint>
    <gml:TimePeriod gml:id="someDatasetSeries1_timeperiod">
      ...
    </gml:TimePeriod>
    <ows:Metadata>
      <wcseo:EOMetadata>
        <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someCatalogue.org/eop-metadata-from-someDatasetSeries1" xlink:role="http://standards.iso.org/iso/19115/-3/mdb/1.0" xlink:title="ISO 19115-3 Metadata" />
        <wcseo:lineage>
          <wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
            <ows:Reference xlink:href="http://www.someWCS.org?SERVICE=WCS&amp;VERSION=2.0.1&amp;REQUEST=GetEOCoverageSet&amp;EOID=someDatasetSeries1&amp;PACKAGEFORMAT=application/metalink4+xml&amp;MEDIATYPE=multipart/related" />
          </wcseo:referenceGetEOCoverageSet>
          <gml:timePosition>2016-05-17T12:25:40Z</gml:timePosition>
        </wcseo:lineage>
      </wcseo:EOMetadata>
    </ows:Metadata>
    <wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
      <wcs:CoverageId>someEOCoverage1</wcs:CoverageId>
    </wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
    <wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
      <wcs:CoverageId>someEOCoverage2</wcs:CoverageId>
    </wcseo:rectifiedDataset>
  </wcseo:DatasetSeries>
</wcseo:EOCoverageSet>








7.6.4. GetEOCoverageSet exceptions

Table 14. Exception codes for GetEOCoverageSet operation	exceptionCode value	HTTP code	Meaning of exception code	locator value
	NoSuchDatasetSeriesOrCoverage
	404
	The identifier passed does not match with
any of the DatasetSeries or EO Coverages offered by this server
	List of
violating Dataset Series and/or EO Coverage identifiers












8. WCS extensions



8.1. Overview


Requirements class eowcs normatively depends on the WCS Extension
specifications listed in this Clause. In other words, any implementation
claiming to conform to this requirements class must also implement the
specifications required in this Clause.






8.2. Band subsetting

	Requirement 114 
	/req/eowcs/band-subsetting



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support the OGC® Web Coverage Service
Interface Standard - Range Subsetting Extension [OGC 12-040].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_service-extension_range-subsetting/1.0/conf/record-subsetting






8.3. Scaling

	Requirement 115 
	/req/eowcs/scaling



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support the OGC® Web Coverage Service
Interface Standard - Scaling Extension [OGC 12-039].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_service-extension_scaling/1.0/conf/scaling






8.4. Interpolation

	Requirement 116 
	/req/eowcs/interpolation



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support the OGC® Web Coverage Service
Interface Standard - Interpolation Extension [OGC 12-049].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_service-extension_interpolation/1.0/conf/interpolation






8.5. CRSs

	Requirement 117 
	/req/eowcs/crs



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support the OGC® Web Coverage Service
Interface Standard - CRS Extension [OGC 11-053r1].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_service-extension_crs/1.0/conf/crs,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_service-extension_crs/1.0/conf/crs-gridded-coverage






8.6. Coverage format encodings

	Requirement 118 
	/req/eowcs/encodings



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support at least one of the coverage
format encodings GeoTIFF [OGC 12-100r1], NetCDF [OGC 14-100r2], and JPEG2000
[OGC 12-108].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/GMLCOV_geotiff-coverages/1.0/conf/geotiff-coverage,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/netCDF_data-model/conf/CF-netCDF-1.6-GML-encoding,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/netCDF_data-model/conf/CF-netCDF-1.6-Data-format,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/netCDF_data-model/conf/CF-netCDF-1.6-Multipart-encoding,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/gmlcov_jpeg2000-coverages/1.0/conf/jpeg2000-coverage










9. Protocol Bindings



9.1. Protocol choices


At least one of the protocols, GET/KVP and SOAP shall be supported by an
implementation. This choice is represented in this specification by two separate
conformance classes, eowcs_get-kvp and eowcs_soap defined in the Subclauses
below.



	Requirement 119 
	/req/eowcs/protocol-bindings



Implementations of this EO-WCS shall support at least one of the requirements
classes eowcs_get-kvp and eowcs_soap.

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_get-kvp,
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_soap






9.2. GET-KVP protocol conformance class


9.2.1. WCS GET/KVP encoding

	Requirement 120 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/mandatory



Implementations of this EO-WCS which support the eowcs_get-kvp requirements
class shall support the WCS 2.0 protocol extension GET/KVP [OGC 09-147r3].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_protocol-binding_get-kvp/1.0/conf/get-kvp



	Requirement 121 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/conformance-class-in-profile



Implementations of this EO-WCS which support the eowcs_get-kvp requirements
class shall include the following URI in a Profile element in the
ServiceIdentification in a GetCapabilities response:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_get-kvp






9.2.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet GET/KVP encoding

	Requirement 122 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-request



The request parameter of a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

request=DescribeEOCoverageSet 



	Requirement 123 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-eoid



The eoId parameter of a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated
as follows, for parameter values v1, …​, vn:

eoid=v1,…​,vn 



	Requirement 124 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-containment



The containment parameter of a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

containment=overlaps

or

containment=contains 



	Requirement 125 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-count



The count parameter of a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated
as follows, for positive integer value x:

count=x 



	Requirement 126 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-startIndex



The startIndex parameter of a DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows, for a non-negative integer value x:

startindex=x 



	Requirement 127 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-subset



The trim parameters of a
DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated through a possibly empty
set of subset specifications, each one with key "subset" and value
specification given by a SubsetSpec adhering to this EBNF syntax [3]
and the resp. XML definitions [6]:

SubsetSpec: dimension ( interval )

dimension: long | lat | phenomenonTime

interval: low , high

low: point | *

high: point | *

point: number | " token " // " = ASCII 0x42




Syntax follows the HTTP standard [3]: underlined tokens represent
literals which appear "as is" ("terminal symbols"), other tokens represent sub-
expressions to be substituted ("non-terminals"). A vertical bar ("|"") denotes
alternatives, items in brackets ("[ ]") are optional. Non-terminals NCName,
number, token, and anyURI follow the resp. XML definitions
[6].




	
Note

	
Allowed values for points are determined by the CRS used. This ranges from
"2009-11-06" for time to "-41.5" and "41°5'" for lat/long whereby non-numeric
values have to be enclosed in double quotes.






	
Note

	
As per HTTP [3], keys are case insensitive whereas values are
case sensitive.






Example: The following KVP-encoded DescribeEOCoverageSet request addresses
service path on server www.myservice.org at port port requests coverage
C0002 in the domain specified by the bounding box with longitude (-71,47) and
latitude (-66,51), expressed in spatial CRS WGS84-2D and temporal CRS ISO:8601
(which are assumed to be supported for the coverage):





http://www.myserver.org:port/path?
service=WCS
&version=2.0.1
&request=DescribeEOCoverageSet
&eoid=C0002
&containment=overlaps
&subset=long(-71,47)
&subset=lat(-66,51)
&subset=phenomenonTime("2009-11-06T23:20:52Z","2009-11-13T23:20:52Z")








9.2.3. GetEOCoverageSet GET/KVP encoding

	Requirement 128 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-request



The request parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

request=GetEOCoverageSet 



	Requirement 129 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-eoid



The eoId parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated
as follows, for parameter values v1, …​, vn:

eoid=v1,…​,vn 



	Requirement 130 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-containment



The containment parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

containment=overlaps

or

containment=contains 



	Requirement 131 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-count



The count parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated
as follows, for positive integer value x:

count=x 



	Requirement 132 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-startIndex



The startIndex parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows, for a non-negative integer value x:

startindex=x 



	Requirement 133 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat



The packageFormat parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows, for parameter value v1:

packageformat=v1 



	Requirement 134 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType



The mediaType parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

mediatype=multipart/related 



	Requirement 135 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-format



The format parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows, for parameter value v1:

format=v1 



	Requirement 136 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-applySubset



The applySubset parameter of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be
indicated as follows:

applysubset=true

or

applysubset=false 



	Requirement 137 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-parameters



The Scaling, Interpolation, subsettingCrs, and outputCrs parameters of
a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated as defined in the respective
WCS extension. 



	Requirement 138 
	/req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-subset



The trim parameters of a GetEOCoverageSet request shall be indicated
through a possibly empty set of subset specifications, each one with key
"subset" and value specification given by a SubsetSpec adhering to this
EBNF syntax [3] and the resp. XML definitions [6]:

SubsetSpec: dimension ( interval )

dimension: long | lat | phenomenonTime

interval: low , high

low: point | *

high: point | *

point: number | " token " // " = ASCII 0x42




Syntax follows the HTTP standard [3]: underlined tokens represent
literals which appear "as is" ("terminal symbols"), other tokens represent sub-
expressions to be substituted ("non-terminals"). A vertical bar ("|"") denotes
alternatives, items in brackets ("[ ]") are optional. Non-terminals NCName,
number, token, and anyURI follow the resp. XML definitions
[6].




	
Note

	
Allowed values for points are determined by the CRS used. This ranges
from "2009-11-06" for time to "-41.5" and "41°5'" for lat/long whereby
non-numeric values have to be enclosed in double quotes.






	
Note

	
As per HTTP [3], keys are case insensitive whereas values are
case sensitive.










9.3. SOAP protocol conformance class


9.3.1. WCS SOAP encoding

	Requirement 139 
	/req/eowcs_soap/mandatory



Implementations of this EO-WCS which support the eowcs_soap requirements class
shall support the WCS 2.0 protocol extension SOAP [OGC 09-149r1].

Dependency:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_protocol-binding_soap/1.0/conf/soap



	Requirement 140 
	/req/eowcs_soap/conformance-class-in-profile



Implementations of this EO-WCS which support the eowcs_soap requirements class
shall include the following URI in a Profile element in the
ServiceIdentification in a GetCapabilities response:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_soap






9.3.2. DescribeEOCoverageSet SOAP encoding

	Requirement 141 
	/req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure



A DescribeEOCoverageSet request shall contain exactly one Body element
containing exactly one DescribeEOCoverageSet element.



	Requirement 142 
	/req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure



In the response to a successful DescribeEOCoverageSet request, the SOAP
Envelope shall contain exactly one Body element which contains a
EOWCS::EOCoverageSetDescription as its single element.




Example: See files wcseo_requestDescribeEOCoverageSet.xml and
wcseo_responseDescribeEOCoverageSet.xml being part of this standard.






9.3.3. DescribeEOCoverageSet WSDL

	Requirement 143 
	/req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-wsdl



Publication of a WCS SOAP service endpoint shall use the binding as defined
in file wsdl/wcs-soap-binding.wsdl of the EO-WCS package.




	
Note

	
A sample service description relying on this binding is provided in file
example-soap-endpoint.wsdl.








9.3.4. GetEOCoverageSet SOAP encoding

	Requirement 144 
	/req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure



A GetEOCoverageSet request shall contain exactly one Body element
containing exactly one GetEOCoverageSet element.



	Requirement 145 
	/req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-response-structure



In the response to a successful GetEOCoverageSet request, the SOAP
Envelope shall contain exactly one Body element which contains a
EOWCS::EOCoverageSet as its single element.




Example: See files wcseo_requestGetEOCoverageSet.xml and
wcseo_responseGetEOCoverageSet.xml being part of this standard.






9.3.5. GetEOCoverageSet WSDL

	Requirement 146 
	/req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-wsdl



Publication of a WCS SOAP service endpoint shall use the binding as defined
in file wsdl/wcs-soap-binding.wsdl of the EO-WCS package.




	
Note

	
A sample service description relying on this binding is provided in file
example-soap-endpoint.wsdl.














Annex A: Conformance Class Abstract Test Suite (Normative)



A WCS implementation must satisfy the following system characteristics to be
conformant with this specification.




Tests identifiers below are relative to:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/




A.1. Conformance Test Classes: eowcs & eowcs_geteocoverageset


The OGC URI identifier of this conformance classes are:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset




A.1.1. EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/eo-metadata-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 1 /req/eowcs/eo-metadata-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the responses contain a EOWCS::EOMetadata corresponding to the
definition and that all responses contain the same information.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.2. Footprint in EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/footprint-in-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 2 /req/eowcs/footprint-in-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the responses contain an
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint element in the
EOWCS::EOMetadata and that all responses contain the same information.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.3. EO Coverage

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/eo-coverage-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 3 /req/eowcs/eo-coverage-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via GetCoverage operation.


	
Check that all responses consist of an XML document as defined in the places
referenced.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.4. EO Metadata in EO Coverage

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/eo-metadata-in-eo-coverage

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 4 /req/eowcs/eo-metadata-in-eo-coverage

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the responses contain a EOWCS::EOMetadata and that all responses
contain the same information.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.5. EOP Identifier in EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/eop-identifier-in-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 5 /req/eowcs/eop-identifier-in-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the responses contain an
eop:EarthObservation/eop:metadataProperty/eop:EarthObservationMetaData/eop:identifier
whose first word is identical to the EO Coverage identifier.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.6. Footprint inside BoundedBy

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/footprint-inside-boundedBy

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 6 /req/eowcs/footprint-inside-boundedBy

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all polygons listed in
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint element are
contained in the bounding box of the gml:boundedBy element of the
gml:Envelope.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.7. PhenomenonTime in EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/phenomenonTime-in-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 7 /req/eowcs/phenomenonTime-in-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the responses contain elements
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition where
beginPosition ≤ endPosition.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.8. PhenomenonTime ISO9891

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/phenomenonTime-iso8601

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 8 /req/eowcs/phenomenonTime-iso8601

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that the temporal validity values are expressed in ISO 8601.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.9. Range type extension

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/rangeTypeExtension

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 9 /req/eowcs/rangeTypeExtension

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.10. Range type uom

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/rangeType-uom

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 10 /req/eowcs/rangeType-uom

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.11. Range type name

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/rangeType-name

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 11 /req/eowcs/rangeType-name

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.12. Rangeset of Coverage

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/range-set-of-eo-coverage

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 12 /req/eowcs/range-set-of-eo-coverage

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via GetCoverage operation.


	
Check that all cells, whose locations are outside the EO Metadata footprint
when both are evaluated in WGS84, contain some nil value as defined in the
bounding EO Coverage’s range type.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.13. Dataset Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/dataset-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 13 /req/eowcs/dataset-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EO Dataset offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via GetCoverage operation.


	
Check that all responses consist of an XML document as defined in the places
referenced.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.14. Referenceable Stitched Mosaic-structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 14 /req/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via GetCoverage operation.


	
Check that all responses consist of an XML document of type
EOWCS::ReferenceableStitchedMosaic as described in the references stated by
the requirement.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.15. Rectified Stitched Mosaic-structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 15 /req/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via GetCoverage operation.


	
Check that all responses consist of an XML document of type
EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic as described in the references stated by the
requirement.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.16. Composed-of in Stitched mosaic

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/composedOf-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 16 /req/eowcs/composedOf-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic and EOWCS::RectifiedStitchedMosaic
offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the set of dataset identifiers contained in
eop:EarthObservation/eop:metaDataProperty/eop:EarthObservationMetaData/eop:composedOf
 via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage
 operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same identifier information.


	
Obtain the contained set of dataset identifiers of the Stitched Mosaic. Check
that all responses contain the same identifier information.


	
If the eop:composedOf element is present then check that the contained set
of dataset identifiers in
eop:EarthObservation/eop:metaDataProperty/eop:EarthObservationMetaData/eop:composedOf
is equal to the set of dataset identifiers of the Stitched Mosaic.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.17. Contributing Footprint inside Footprint

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/contributingFootprint-inside-footprint

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 17 /req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-inside-footprint

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
For each obtained dataset d:


	
obtain the contributingFootprint associated with the reference to d and
check that all responses contain the same contributingFootprint information
with the reference to d.


	
obtain the footprint of d coverage via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations, and check that all
responses contain the same footprint information.


	
Check that the contributingFootprint associated with the reference to d is
contained in the footprint of d.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.18. Contributing Footprint-pairwise-disjoint

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/contributingFootprint-pairwise-disjoint

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 18 /req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-pairwise-disjoint

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations. Check that all responses contain the same
contributingFootprint information.


	
Check that the contributingFootprints are pair-wise disjoint.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.19. Contributing Footprint-union-of-footprints

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/contributingFootprint-union-of-footprints

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 19 /req/eowcs/contributingFootprint-union-of-footprints

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet,
and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that there is a contributingFootprint for each dataset of the Stitched
Mosaic.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.20. Dataset Domain Set in Set in Stitched Mosaic Domain Set

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/dataset-domain-set-in-stitched-mosaic-domain-set

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 20 /req/eowcs/dataset-domain-set-in-stitched-mosaic-domain-set

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain all cells of s as defined by domain set of s via GetCoverage
operation.


	
For each obtained dataset d:


	
Obtain all cells of d as defined by domain set of d via GetCoverage
operation.


	
Check that all cells of d as defined by domain set of d are included in
the set of all cells of s as defined by domain set of s.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.21. Datasets in Rectified Stitched Mosaic Same Offset Vector

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/datasets-in-rectifiedStitcheMosaic-same-offsetVector

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 21 /req/eowcs/datasets-in-rectifiedStitcheMosaic-same-offsetVector

	Test method:
	
For each Rectified Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
For each obtained dataset d:


	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same gml:offsetVector information in
their domain sets.







	
Check that all Datasets have identical values in the gml:offsetVector
elements of their domain sets.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.22. Rectified Stitched Mosaic OffsetVector

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-offsetVector

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 22 /req/eowcs/rectifiedStitchedMosaic-offsetVector

	Test method:
	
For each Rectified Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve the value of the gml:offsetVector elements of the domain set via
DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same offsetVector information.


	
For each obtained dataset d:


	
retrieve coverage information via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same gml:offsetVector information in
their domain sets.







	
Check that both the Rectified Stitched Mosaic and the Datasets the Rectified
Stitched Mosaic refers to have identical values in the gml:offsetVector
elements of their domain sets.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.23. Referenceable Stitched Mosaic Domainset

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-domain-set

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 23 /req/eowcs/referenceableStitchedMosaic-domain-set

	Test method:
	
For each Referenceable Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
For any pair d1 and d2 of Datasets referred to by the given Stitched
Mosaic:


	
Check that the set of point locations in the geographic overlap of the d1
and d2 domain set are identical.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.24. Temporal Validity Stitched Mosaic

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/temporal-validity-stitched-mosaic

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 24 /req/eowcs/temporal-validity-stitched-mosaic

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve the time interval t of the Stitched Mosaic given by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition
elements in wcseo:EOMetadata via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same time interval information.

For each obtained dataset d:


	
retrieve the time interval ti of dataset d given by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition
elements in wcseo:EOMetadata via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same time interval information.







	
Check that t is the minimal time interval containing the temporal validities
of all Datasets the Stitched Mosaic refers to.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.25. Datasets in Stitched Mosaic Same Rangetype

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/datasets-in-stitched-mosaic-same-range-type

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 25 /req/eowcs/datasets-in-stitched-mosaic-same-range-type

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain range type via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet, and
GetCoverage operations. Check that all responses contain the same range type
information s.


	
For each obtained dataset:


	
Obtain range type via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet, and
GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same range type d, and check that d
is identical to the range type of s.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.26. Nil Values in Stitched Mosaic

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/nil-values-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 26 /req/eowcs/nil-values-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the domain set via DescribeCoverage, DescribeEOCoverageSet, and
GetCoverage operations.


	
Check that all responses contain the same domain set information.


	
Check that if the domain set contains locations which are not inside any
contributingFootprint the Stitched Mosaic refers to then the nil value set of
that Stitched Mosaic are not empty.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.27. Range Values of Stitched Mosaic

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/range-values-of-stitched-mosaic

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 27 /req/eowcs/range-values-of-stitched-mosaic

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the contained cells via GetCoverage operation.


	
For each obtained cell with location p check that:


	
if p is located within the contributingFootprint of some Dataset d
referred to by s then it is the range value of d at p;


	
if p is not located within the contributingFootprint of any Dataset d
referred to by s then it is one of the range values contained in the nil
value set of s.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.28. Dataset Series Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/datasetSeries-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 28 /req/eowcs/datasetSeries-structure

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::DatasetSeries offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the EOWCS::DatasetSeries via DescribeEOCoverageSet. Check that all
responses consist of an XML document as defined in the places referenced.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.29. Footprint in Dataset Series

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/footprint-in-datasetSeries

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 29 /req/eowcs/footprint-in-datasetSeries

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::DatasetSeries offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the footprint of EOWCS::DatasetSeries via DescribeEOCoverageSet.


	
Check that the locations of the footprint are expressed in WGS84.


	
Obtain the footprints of all Stitched Mosaics and Datasets the Dataset Series
refers to.


	
Check that these footprints are enclosed in the footprint of
EOWCS::DatasetSeries.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.30. TimePeriod in DatasetSeries

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/timePeriod-in-datasetSeries

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 30 /req/eowcs/timePeriod-in-datasetSeries

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::DatasetSeries offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the timePeriod element s of EOWCS::DatasetSeries via
DescribeEOCoverageSet. Check that s is expressed in ISO 8601and that:


	
For each Stitched Mosaics and Datasets the Dataset Series refers to:


	
retrieve the time interval d via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations. Check that all
responses contain the same time interval information.


	
Check that d is enclosed by the temporal validities of s.












Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.31. Metadata in DatasetSeries

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/metadata-in-datasetSeries

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 31 /req/eowcs/metadata-in-datasetSeries

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.32. No circular references of Dataset Series

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/nocircularreference-of-datasetSeries

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 32 /req/eowcs/nocircularreference-of-datasetSeries

	Test method:
	
For each EOWCS::DatasetSeries offered by the server under test:




	
Obtain the EOWCS::DatasetSeries via DescribeEOCoverageSet. Check that all
EOWCS::DatasetSeries it refers to do not refer to the
EOWCS::DatasetSeries at hand.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.33. GetCapabilities Request Sections

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-request-sections

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 33 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-request-sections

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request contains a sections element and this
element contains section elements with the values defined in OWS Common, or
"DatasetSeriesSummary", or "CoverageSummary" to the server under test, check the
result consists of an XML document of type Capabilities and the appropriate
components, as defined in the places referenced.









A.1.34. GetCapabilities Response eowcs Conformance Class in Profile

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 34 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.35. GetCapabilities Response eowcs_geteocoverageset Conformance Class in Profile

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 35 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-conformance-class-in-profile

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.36. GetCapabilities Response Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 36 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-structure

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the server under test, check the
result consists of an XML document of type Capabilities and the appropriate
components, as defined in the places referenced.









A.1.37. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeriesSummary

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 37 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the service under test. If a
EOWCS::DatasetSeriesSummary section is contained in the response then send,
for each DatasetSeriesId, a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request. Check that
none of these requests results in an exception. Test passes if all checks are
successful.









A.1.38. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeriesSummary no-duplicates

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-no-duplicates

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 38 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-no-duplicates

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the service under test. If a
EOWCS::DatasetSeriesSummary section is contained in the response check that it
does not contain any duplicate Dataset Series identifier.









A.1.39. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Summary

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 39 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the service under test. If a
WCS::CoverageSummary section is contained in the response then send, for each
coverage identifier, a valid DescribeCoverage and a valid
DescribeEOCoverageSet request. Check that none of these requests results in an
exception. Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.40. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Summary Section

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary-section

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 40 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSummary-section

	Test method:
	
Send valid GetCapabilities requests contains a sections parameter and the
section parameter list contains one of the values "CoverageSummary", "Contents",
or "All" to the service under test. Check that the response contains
wcs:CoverageSummary elements.Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.41. GetCapabilities Response DatasetSeries Summary Section

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-section

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 41 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-datasetSeriesSummary-section

	Test method:
	
Send valid GetCapabilities requests contains a sections parameter and the
section parameter list contains one of the values "DatasetSeriesSummary" or
"All" to the service under test. Check that the response contains a
wcseo:DatasetSeriesSummary.Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.42. GetCapabilities Response Coverage Subtype

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSubtype

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 42 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-coverageSubtype

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the server under test, check that each
EO Coverage listed contains the corresponding value in its
WCS::CoverageSubtype element.









A.1.43. GetCapabilities Response countDefault

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-countDefault

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 43 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-countDefault

	Test method:
	
Send a valid GetCapabilities request to the server under test, check that its
ows:OperationsMetadata element contains an ows:Constraint element, as
defined in the places referenced.









A.1.44. GetCapabilities Response pagingSupported

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-paging-supported

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 44 /req/eowcs/getCapabilities-response-paging-supported

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.45. GetCapabilities Response wcseoMetadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-wcseoMetadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 45 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-wcseoMetadata

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.46. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response defaultPackageFormat

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-defaultPackageFormat

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 46 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-defaultPackageFormat

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.47. GetCapabilities Response packageFormatSupported

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-packageFormatSupported

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 47 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getCapabilities-response-packageFormatSupported

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.48. Describe Coverage Response EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 48 /req/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server, send a valid DescribeCoverage
request to server under test. Check that the result contains an EOMetadata
element. Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.49. Describe Coverage Response Coverage Subtype

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-coverageSubtype

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 49 /req/eowcs/describeCoverage-response-coverageSubtype

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeCoverage request to the server under test, check that
each EO Coverage listed contains the corresponding value in its
WCS::CoverageSubtype element.









A.1.50. GetCoverage Request no Slicing

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-request-no-slicing

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 50 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-request-no-slicing

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server:




	
send otherwise GetCoverage requests with and without a slicing operation.


	
Check whether appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.51. GetCoverage Response Coverage Type

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-response-coverage-type

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 51 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-coverage-type

	Test method:
	
For each Rectified EO Coverage offered by the server:




	
send a valid GetCoverage request to server under test.


	
Check that the result is Coverage of correct type.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.52. GetCoverage Response EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 52 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server:




	
send a valid GetCoverage request to server under test.


	
Check that the responses contain a EOWCS::EOMetadata.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.53. GetCoverage Response EO Metadata in Stitched Mosaic

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 53 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-eo-metadata-in-stitched-mosaic

	Test method:
	
For each Stitched Mosaic offered by the server:




	
send a valid GetCoverage request with an effective spatio-temporal request
trim interval to server under test.


	
Check that the EOWCS::EOMetadata of the coverage returned contains the
original Stitched Mosaic’s references to those Datasets which have a non-empty
intersection with the effective spatio-temporal request trim interval.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.54. GetCoverage Response Footprint in EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-response-footprint-in-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 54 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-footprint-in-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server:




	
Send a valid GetCoverage request with a spatial request trim interval to
server under test. Check that the footprint of the EOWCS::EOMetadata in the
coverage returned is given by the intersection of the spatial request interval
and the footprint of the coverage requested.


	
Send a valid GetCoverage request without a trimming interval to server under
test. Check that the footprint in the result coverage is given by the
footprint of the coverage requested.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.55. GetCoverage Response Lineage in EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getCoverage-response-lineage-in-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 55 /req/eowcs/getCoverage-response-lineage-in-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
For each EO Coverage offered by the server under test:




	
retrieve Lineage component information via DescribeCoverage,
DescribeEOCoverageSet, and GetCoverage operations. Check that all
responses contain the same information.


	
Send a valid GetCoverage request to server under test. Check that the
Lineage component consists of the Lineage component of the coverage requested
with one record appended containing the complete, verbatim GetCoverage
request leading to this response.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.56. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 56 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test method:
	
Send DescribeEOCoverageSet requests with valid and invalid request structure.




Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.57. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Sections

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-sections

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 57 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-sections

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests containing a sections
element and this element containing one of the values:




	
"CoverageDescription"


	
"DatasetSeriesDescriptions"


	
"All"


	
invalid values







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.58. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request eoId

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-eoId

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 58 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-eoId

	Test method:
	
For each Dataset, Stitched Mosaic, and Dataset Series offered by the server
under test, sends a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request to server under test.
Check that the identifier of a Dataset, a Stitched Mosaic, or a Dataset Series
is equal to the eoId parameter value in the request. Test passes if all
individual tests pass.









A.1.59. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 59 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-containment

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests contain a containment
parameter and this parameter has one of the values:




	
"contains"


	
"overlaps"


	
invalid values







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.60. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request Dimension

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 60 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests to server under test which
contain duplicate, and send requests which contain no duplicate dimension
parameters. Do so for requests with single, and multiple dimensionTrim. Verify
that, whenever at least one duplicate dimension occurs, an exception is returned
and a normal response otherwise.









A.1.61. DescribeEOCoverageSet Request CRS

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-crs

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 61 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-request-crs

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests to server under test which
contain:




	
WGS84 [4] as spatial and ISO8601 [2] as temporal CRS for the
coordinates in trim request


	
Other CRS for the coordinates in trim requests







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.62. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 62 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request to the server under test, check
that the result consist of a EOWCS::EOCoverageSetDescription structure.









A.1.63. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Metadata

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eo-metadata

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 63 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eo-metadata

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests to server under test, check that
each WCS::CoverageDescription listed in the response contains one
EOWCS::EOMetadata element and this element contains the EO Metadata component
of the EO Coverage to be described.









A.1.64. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Section CoverageDescriptions

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-coverageDescriptions

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 64 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-coverageDescriptions

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests contain a sections
element and this element contains one of the section parameter values:




	
"CoverageDescription"


	
"All"


	
invalid values







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.65. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response EO Section DatasetSeriesDescriptions

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-datasetSeriesDescriptions

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 65 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-section-datasetSeriesDescriptions

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests contain a sections
element and this element contains one of the section parameter values:




	
"DatasetSeriesDescriptions"


	
"All"


	
invalid values







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.1.66. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response eoId

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eoId

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 66 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-eoId

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a
wcs:CoverageDescription section to server under test. Check that each EO
Coverage referred to by one of the objects identified in the eoId request
parameter appears at most once.









A.1.67. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Referred

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-referred

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 67 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-referred

	Test method:
	
For each send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests to server under test,
check that each WCS::CoverageDescription listed in the response is at least
contained in one of the EOWCS::EOMetadata elements and that this element
contains the EO Metadata component of the EO Coverage to be described.




For each EOWCS::DatasetSeries offered by the server under test:




	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request. Check that each
WCS::CoverageDescription listed in the response is at least referred to by
one EOWCS::DatasetSeries also contained in the response.







Test passes if all individual tests pass.









A.1.68. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 68 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-containment

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests containing a
wcs:CoverageDescription section and a spatial trim to server under test. Check
that:




	
if the request parameter containment is of value overlaps or is omitted,
the response contains only descriptions of those EO Coverages whose spatial
footprint defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint overlaps with the
spatial request extent;


	
if the request parameter containment is of value contains, the response
contains only descriptions of those EO Coverages whose spatial footprint
defined by its eop:EarthObservation/om:featureOfInterest/eop:Footprint is
completely contained within the spatial request extent.







Pass test if both checks succeed.









A.1.69. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response PhenomenonTime

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 69 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests containing a
wcs:CoverageDescription section and a time interval to server under test.
Check that:




	
if the request parameter containment is of value overlaps or is omitted,
the response contains only descriptions of EO Coverages whose time interval
defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition
elements in wcseo:EOMetadata overlaps with the request time extent;


	
if request parameter containment is of value contains, the response
contains only descriptions of EO Coverages whose time interval defined by its
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:beginPosition and
eop:EarthObservation/om:phenomenonTime/gml:TimePeriod/gml:endPosition
elements in wcseo:EOMetadata is completely contained within the request time
extent;







Pass test if both checks succeed.









A.1.70. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Trim Omitted

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 70 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests with a trimming in actual
boundary of the object and without a trimming to server under test. Check that
both responses are not exceptions and equal.









A.1.71. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Bound Omitted

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 71 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid DescribeEOCoverageSet requests with a lower or upper
bound omitted to server under test. Check that the responses are the same when
they are indicated in actual lower or upper bound of the objects.









A.1.72. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response CoverageSubtype

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-coverageSubtype

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 72 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-coverageSubtype

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request to server under test. Check that
each Coverage listed contains the corresponding value in its
WCS::CoverageSubtype element.









A.1.73. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response Count

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-count

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 73 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-count

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a count parameter with
a value lower than the value of the CountDefault element to server under test.
Check that the sum of the numbers of CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements is less or equal to the value of the count
parameter.









A.1.74. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response startIndex

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 74 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.75. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response numberMatched attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 75 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a count parameter with
a value lower than the value of the CountDefault element to server under test.
Check that the sum of the numbers of CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements is higher or equal to the value of the
reported numberMatched parameter.









A.1.76. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response numberReturned attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 76 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned

	Test method:
	
Send a valid DescribeEOCoverageSet request containing a count parameter with
a value lower than the value of the CountDefault element to server under test.
Check that the sum of the numbers of CoverageDescription and
DatasetSeriesDescription elements is equal to the value of the reported
numberReturned parameter.









A.1.77. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response startIndex attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 77 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.78. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response next attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-next

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 78 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-next

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.79. DescribeEOCoverageSet Response previous attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-previous

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 79 /req/eowcs/describeEOCoverageSet-response-previous

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.80. GetEOCoverageSet Request Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 80 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.81. GetEOCoverageSet Request eoId

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-eoId

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 81 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-eoId

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.82. GetEOCoverageSet Request Containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 82 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-containment

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.83. GetEOCoverageSet Request Dimensions

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 83 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-dimensions

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.84. GetEOCoverageSet Request CRS

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-crs

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 84 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-request-crs

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.85. GetEOCoverageSet Request packageFormat

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-packageFormat

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 85 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-packageFormat

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.86. GetEOCoverageSet Request mediaType

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-mediaType

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 86 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-mediaType

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.87. GetEOCoverageSet Request Format

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-format

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 87 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-format

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.88. GetEOCoverageSet Request Scaling

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-scaling

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 88 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-scaling

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.89. GetEOCoverageSet Request Interpolation

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-interpolation

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 89 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-interpolation

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.90. GetEOCoverageSet Request CRSs

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-crss

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 90 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-acceptable-crss

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.91. GetEOCoverageSet Response packageFormat

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 91 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.92. GetEOCoverageSet Response multipart

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-multipart

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 92 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-multipart

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.93. GetEOCoverageSet Response mediaType

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 93 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.94. GetEOCoverageSet Response cid

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-cid

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 94 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-cid

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.95. GetEOCoverageSet Response Format

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-format

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 95 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-format

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.96. GetEOCoverageSet Response GetCoverage Applicable

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-getCoverage

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 96 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-getCoverage

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.97. GetEOCoverageSet Response eoId

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-eoId

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 97 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-eoId

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.98. GetEOCoverageSet Response Referred

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-referred

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 98 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-referred

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.99. GetEOCoverageSet Response Containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 99 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-containment

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.100. GetEOCoverageSet Response phenomenonTime

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 100 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-phenomenonTime

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.101. GetEOCoverageSet Response Trim Omitted

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 101 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-trim-omitted

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.102. GetEOCoverageSet Response Bound Omitted

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 102 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-bound-omitted

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.103. GetEOCoverageSet Response Count

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-count

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 103 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-count

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.104. GetEOCoverageSet Response startIndex

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 104 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.105. GetEOCoverageSet Response numberMatched attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 105 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberMatched

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.106. GetEOCoverageSet Response numberReturned attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 106 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-numberReturned

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.107. GetEOCoverageSet Response startIndex attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 107 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-startIndex-attr

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.108. GetEOCoverageSet Response next attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-next

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 108 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-next

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.109. GetEOCoverageSet Response previous attribute

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-previous

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 109 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-previous

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.110. GetEOCoverageSet Response applySubset

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-applySubset

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 110 /req/eowcs/getEOCoverageSet-response-applySubset

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.111. GetEOCoverageSet Response Scaling

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-scaling

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 111 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-scaling

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.112. GetEOCoverageSet Response Interpolation

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-interpolation

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 112 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-interpolation

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.113. GetEOCoverageSet Response CRSs

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-crss

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 113 /req/eowcs_geteocoverageset/getEOCoverageSet-crss

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.1.114. Band Subsetting

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/band-subsetting

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 114 /req/eowcs/band-subsetting

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.115. Scaling

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/scaling

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 115 /req/eowcs/scaling

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.116. Interpolation

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/interpolation

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 116 /req/eowcs/interpolation

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.117. CRS

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/crs

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 117 /req/eowcs/crs

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.118. Encodings

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/encodings

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 118 /req/eowcs/encodings

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.1.119. Protocol-bindings

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs/protocol-bindings

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 119 /req/eowcs/protocol-bindings

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.











A.2. Conformance Test Class: eowcs_get-kvp


The OGC URI identifier of this conformance class is:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_get-kvp




A.2.1. eowcs_get-kvp/Mandatory

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/mandatory

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 120 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/mandatory

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.2.2. eowcs_get-kvp/Conformance Class in Profile

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/conformance-class-in-profile

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 121 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/conformance-class-in-profile

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.2.3. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet request

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-request

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 122 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-request

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp DescribeEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.4. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet eoid

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-eoid

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 123 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-eoid

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp DescribeEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.5. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 124 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-containment

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp DescribeEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.6. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet count

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-count

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 125 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-count

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.7. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet startIndex

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-startIndex

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 126 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-startIndex

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.8. eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet Subset

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-subset

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 127 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/describeEOCoverageSet-subset

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp DescribeEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.9. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet request

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-request

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 128 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-request

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp GetEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.10. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet eoid

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-eoid

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 129 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-eoid

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp GetEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.11. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet containment

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-containment

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 130 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-containment

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp GetEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.









A.2.12. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet count

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-count

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 131 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-count

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.13. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet startIndex

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-startIndex

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 132 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-startIndex

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.14. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet packageFormat

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 133 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-packageFormat

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.15. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet mediaType

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 134 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-mediaType

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.16. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet format

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-format

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 135 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-format

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.17. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet applySubset

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-applySubset

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 136 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-applySubset

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.18. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet parameters

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-parameters

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 137 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-parameters

	Test method:
	
TODO









A.2.19. eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet Subset

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-subset

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 138 /req/eowcs_get-kvp/getEOCoverageSet-subset

	Test method:
	
Send a valid get-kvp GetEOCoverageSet request as defined. Check that the
response is not an exception.











A.3. Conformance Test Class: eowcs_soap


The OGC URI identifier of this conformance class is:
http://www.opengis.net/spec/WCS_application-profile_earth-observation/1.1/conf/eowcs_soap




A.3.1. eowcs_soap/Mandatory

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/mandatory

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 139 /req/eowcs_soap/mandatory

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.3.2. eowcs_soap/Conformance Class in Profile

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/conformance-class-in-profile

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 140 /req/eowcs_soap/conformance-class-in-profile

	Test method:
	
Determine the list of supported extensions via a valid GetCapabilities
request; check that the extension required is listed.









A.3.3. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet Request Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 141 /req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid soap DescribeEOCoverageSet requests containing:




	
exactly one Body element containing exactly one DescribeEOCoverageSet
element;


	
exactly one Body element containing more than one DescribeEOCoverageSet
element;


	
exactly one Body element containing no DescribeEOCoverageSet element;


	
more than one Body element;


	
without a Body element;







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.3.4. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet Response Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 142 /req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test method:
	
Send a valid soap DescribeEOCoverageSet request to sever under test. Check
response whether the condition is fulfilled.









A.3.5. eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 143 /req/eowcs_soap/describeEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test method:
	
For the service under test, retrieve the WSDL description and issue requests
which make use of this service definition. Check that the service can be
addressed and that queries can be retrieved properly.









A.3.6. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet Request Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 144 /req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-request-structure

	Test method:
	
Send otherwise valid soap GetEOCoverageSet requests containing:




	
exactly one Body element containing exactly one GetEOCoverageSet
element;


	
exactly one Body element containing more than one GetEOCoverageSet
element;


	
exactly one Body element containing no GetEOCoverageSet element;


	
more than one Body element;


	
without a Body element;







Pass test if appropriate valid results or exceptions, resp., are delivered.









A.3.7. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet Response Structure

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 145 /req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-response-structure

	Test method:
	
Send a valid soap GetEOCoverageSet request to sever under test. Check
response whether the condition is fulfilled.









A.3.8. eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test id:
	/conf/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test purpose:
	Requirement 146 /req/eowcs_soap/getEOCoverageSet-wsdl

	Test method:
	
For the service under test, retrieve the WSDL description and issue requests
which make use of this service definition. Check that the service can be
addressed and that queries can be retrieved properly.







 — end of ATS — 












Annex B: Use Case Examples (Informative)



In the following two Use Cases are presented to illustrate possible application
scenarios of EO-WCS in the domain of earth observation and remote sensing.




B.1. Use Case 1


Provider offers, through an EO-WCS service, one Dataset Series containing Sea
Surface Temperature (SST) and another Dataset Series containing Ocean Color
(OC).




User wants to compare the timely development and distribution of some algal
bloom in relationship to ocean currents indicated by the changes in SST. User,
therefore, plans to analyze a timeseries of OC and SST imageries over a certain
period of time (TOI) in the Area of Interest (AOI).




User first addresses the EO-WCS service by issuing a GetCapabilities
request.The resulting response contains information about available
DatasetSeriesIds, their spatial extent (as WGS84BoundingBox), as well as
their temporal validity (as beginPosition and endPosition).




Based on this information, User can issue a DescribeEOCoverageSet request,
using the received DatasetSerieId (as eoId) to obtain detail information
on the content of the two offered DatasetSeries of interest. Since User is only
interested in a limited period of time and a certain area, the
DescribeEOCoverageSet request contains parameters for spatial and temporal
subsetting, for example:





subset=lat(32,47)&
subset=long(11,33)&
subset=phenomenonTime("2006-08-01","2006-08-22T19:22:00Z")






User will receive a response containing the CoverageIds of the datasets
available within this spatio-temporal bounding box provided; notably, this set
will be empty if no item is contained within the area and time queried.




User subsequently decides about which of the coverages identified are of
interest and issues a GetCoverage request for each CoverageId received in
the DescribeEOCoverageSet response. Again, User can select an AOI (via the
subset parameter); additionally, specific bands (via range subsetting), output
coverage format, output CRS, interpolation method, etc. can be selected
depending on the WCS extensions implemented by the server; the Capabilities
document contains pertinent information. Following download via GetCoverage, the
SST and OC coverages can be analyzed and processed on User’s local workstation.






B.2. Use Case 2


Provider offers, during harvesting seasons (e.g., March through August), three
2-monthly Stitched Mosaics for a certain area. Whenever new images are available
in this area they are included in the respective (time-slot) Stitched Mosaic,
possibly replacing older datasets or parts thereof. The providers applies a
"least cloud cover/newest on top" approach to feed into the respective mosaics.
At the end of each 2-month period the next mosaic is initiated. Stitched
Mosaics enable Provider to offer the full metadata set for each dataset
participating in a mosaic for any time instance, down to pixel-level accuracy.




User wants to assess crop yield for an AOI contained within the providers
Stitched Mosaics. For doing so, User needs data about the same AOI for at least
2 points in time. Further, User requires the full metadata recorded (including
possible lineage data) together with the actual imagery.




User addresses the EO-WCS by issuing a GetCapabilities request.The response
contains the coverageIds for all Stitched Mosaics available.




Further information - i.e., metadata - can be obtained through a
DescribeCoverage request on the coverageIds received. This yields bounding
box, footprint, bands, as well as timestamp information (e.g., oldest and
youngest image) of the datasets participating in the Stitched Mosaic.
Alternatively, if User needs details about those datasets comprising a
particular Stitched Mosaic, a DescribeEOCoverageSet request using the
CoverageId as eoId can be issued. This results in detailed information
(time, footprint, bands, etc.) about each dataset participating in the object
queried.




For accessing the image data, User issues a GetCoverage request providing the
identifier of the object to be retrieved. In addition to the mandatory request
parameters, further optional parameters allow specifying output format,
geographic subset, and further details; availability of this functionality
depends on the extensions the EO-WCS implements, as indicated in its
Capabilities document. The coverages retrieved finally can be analyzed and
processed further in User’s local workstation environment.










Annex C: Revision History


	Date	Release	Editor	Primary clauses modified	Description
	2010-10-27
	0.1.0
	Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl
	All
	Created

	2011-01-19
	0.2.0
	Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl
	All
	Various updates

	2011-01-19
	0.3.0
	Jinsongdi Yu
	Annex A
	Added ATS

	2011-06-10
	0.4.0
	Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl
	All
	Incorporated OAB
comments

	2013-06-19
	0.5.2
	Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl
	All
	Thorough review
and adjustments to WCS and GMLCOV corrigenda

	2014-03-05
	1.0
	Peter Baumann, Stephan Meissl, Jinsongdi Yu
	Clause 9.2.2,
Footer
	Corrected example and copyright year in

	2016-05-10
	1.0
	Stephan Meissl
	None
	Made an Asciidoc
copy and published it on GitHub (https://github.com/EOX-A/eo-wcs,
https://eox-a.github.io/eo-wcs)

	2016-08-31
	1.1draft
	Stephan Meissl
	7.6
	Proposal from ESA
project EVO-ODAS

	2017-11-22
	1.1draft2
	Stephan Meissl
	None
	Adjusted
document to new standards template








Annex D: Bibliography



[1] OGC: OGC 09-153, WCS 2.0 Overview: Core and Extensions, version 1.0.0, 2012




[2] ISO: ISO 8601:2004(E) Data elements and interchange formats - Information
interchange - Representation of dates and time, 2004




[3] IETF: RFC 2616, Hypertext Transfer Protocol — HTTP/1.1. IETF, 1999




[4] www.epsg.org




[5] W3C: W3C Note 11, SOAP Messages with Attachments. W3C Note 11, 2000




[6] W3C: XML Schema Part 2: Datatypes Second Edition, W3C Recommendation, 2004




[7] OpenSearch.org: OpenSearch Specification, 1.1, Draft 5, 2016




[8] OGC: OGC 09-025r2, OpenGIS Web Feature Service 2.0 Interface Standard -
With Corrigendum, version 2.0.2, 2014











Last updated 2018-10-04 11:50:08 EDT




